<!--se:split--><h1 class='nobreak' id='t152'>I</h1>

<p class='pindent'>As she lay floating in the grey river that flows between
sleeping and waking, Maggie Campion
knew, without remembering why, that it was a happy
day. And when she opened her eyes, the sunlight falling
on the carpet in stripes of pale warm gold, the
warm buff walls, even the fat little buff potichomanie
flagons with their crimson rosebuds, all held a secret
happiness—what was it? The looped-back muslin
curtains were like ladies in billowing white, curtseying
to each other, two in each window, and even Maggie’s
stout scuffed little shoes on the floor where she had
left them when she undressed, pointed their toes in
the first position of dancing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She lay pressing her hands together under the
blankets, floating in this still bright bliss. She remembered
now what it was. It was Papa’s birthday, and
he was coming home from New York.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie was ten years old, with light eyes looking
out from under dark scowling brows, brown hair
that fell straight and limp from curling-rags even as
they were unrolled, and a face covered with freckles.
She was more like a boy than a girl, everyone said.
She was always carrying hoptoads about in her hat,
or tearing her petticoats climbing trees and sliding
down the ice house roof. She was sometimes as bold
as brass and sometimes one crimson blush of shyness,
and she had the strangest ways of showing people that
she loved them—boasting in front of them in a loud
gruff voice, making awful faces, twisting one leg
around the other, or standing on the sides of her feet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Six-year-old May slept beside her in the big bed
carved with oak-leaves and acorns, under the picture
of the guardian angel hovering above the little brother
and sister gathering wild flowers at the edge of the
precipice. May had short bright brown curls foaming
all over her head, and brown eyes with long curled
lashes, and she knew perfectly well what Mamma’s
friends meant when they exclaimed, “Oh, <span class='it'>what</span> a little
b-e-a-u-t-y!” She loved her pretty clothes, and never
tore them as Maggie did, but would stroke her small
muff or her best blue sash as another little girl might
stroke a kitten; and Mamma had been dreadfully
troubled once to find her kissing her best bonnet goodnight.
When May loved people she told them so,
flinging her arms around them and kissing them again
and again, which they found at first charming and
presently exhausting, for she never knew when to stop,
and always had to be disentangled, like a burr or a
kitten, and carried weeping from the room.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Sometimes, when there was company of an evening,
Papa would pick her up out of bed and carry her
downstairs in her nightgown to dance on the top of the
piano, while Mamma played, not quite accurately, but
with a lot of ripple and splash, and Papa sang in the
voice that pierced so thrillingly the heart of his eldest
daughter, lying awake in the dark:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Sound, sound, the tambourine,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welcome now the gipsy star;</p>
<p class='line0'>Strike, strike the mandoline,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And the light guitar;</p>
<p class='line0'>When the moon is beaming bright,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The gipsies dance, the gipsies dance;</p>
<p class='line0'>’Neath the moonbeams’ glittering ray,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Now their figures glance.</p>
<p class='line0'>See, see, they trip along,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;O’er the green, o’er the green,</p>
<p class='line0'>List, list, the cheerful song,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To the merry, merry, merry, merry, merry, merry, merry,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;merry, merry, merry, merry, merry,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;tambourine!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>And excited little May would hold up her long
nightie and dance, while the company applauded.
But she generally ended in tears. “May is very high-strung,”
Mamma would say, gently complacent.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily, who was four, lay in a cot beside the big bed,
as fat and fast asleep as a milk-white kitten. Her hair
was palest silky yellow, curling up in little duck-tails
from her fat neck, and her round eyes, so tight shut
now, were like Mamma’s, as blue as flower petals. She
trotted through childhood’s endless days on fat legs
that could never catch up with Maggie and May, calling
always, “Wait! Wait! Wait for Lily!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie, lying there, heard from below the swish,
swish of Albert’s broom, sweeping the porch; the
squeak of the pump-handle as old Chloe filled the
kettle; Trusty barking at the starlings. The beautiful
day had begun.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The three little Campions spent the morning in the
kitchen, drawn by the smell of baking cake, as bees are
drawn to apple-blossoms, being stepped on and bumped
into, stealing almonds, scraping icing-bowls and licking
the sugary, buttery batter from the wooden cake
spoons, until old Chloe shooed them out as if they
were chickens.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Dressed alike in brown merino frocks and bibbed
black aprons edged with quilling, with long tucked
drawers showing beneath their full skirts, they sat
squeezed together in the door of the kitchen shed, eating
the hot little try-cakes with which old Chloe tested
the oven. At their feet, on the rose-red bricks, silky
black Trusty sat and watched each vanishing mouthful
with drooling jaws and an agony of longing in his
eyes. The pale spring sunshine lay on them delicately
warm; starlings, shining and black as wet ink, swayed
in the tree tops; and the weeping willow, hanging over
the whitewashed cabins across the road where the
negro servants slept, was turning brightest yellow
green. The small hot cakes with their crisp brown
lace-like edgings were so delicious. Oh, everything
was so nice! And Papa was coming home!</p>

<p class='pindent'>Great things were being done inside, for Uncle
Willie and poor Aunt Priscilla and Cousin Lizzie and
Cousin Sam were coming to dinner because it was
Papa’s birthday.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you <span class='it'>really</span> think you ought to have us,
Margaret?” Cousin Lizzie had asked. “In your condition?”
For Mamma was expecting another baby
in two months.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It seemed to Mamma not quite—well—<span class='it'>delicate</span>—of
Lizzie to keep reminding her of her condition. She
herself never spoke of it except reluctantly in answer
to Papa. There was some excuse for him, he wanted
a son so intensely, and then gentlemen were different.
It was a fact that complicated life, but could not be
denied. But Lizzie, with her sharp eyes and sharp
tongue, was dreadfully embarrassing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll give you just what we’d have ourselves,
Lizzie.” Mamma had lied gently; and she wrote out
the menu and carried it about tucked into her bodice
like a love letter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mock turtel soup, boiled turky with oyster sauce,
roasted ham, chicken-pie, roast goose with applesauce,
smoke-tongue, beats, cold-slaw, squash, salsify, fried
celery, almond pudding, mince pie, calf’s foot jelly,
blanc-mange.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was a beautiful cut-paper trouser-frill for the
roasted ham, and the crust of the chicken-pie, meltingly,
tenderly brown, was ornamented with pie-crust
stars and squiggles. As for the blanc-mange, the little
girls had never seen anything so charming. It had
been moulded in blown egg-shells, and lay in a nest
of clear amber jelly and lemon peel cut in thin strips
to look like straw.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Of course, today of all days, poor Aunt Priscilla
had to come to help, and that always delayed things
so. She came with her beautiful Cashmere shawl all
huddled about her round shoulders, and her hair spraying
out of torn places in her net, and her shabby old
Adelaide boots that drove Uncle Willie nearly crazy.
He wanted her to dress fashionably, and she <span class='it'>couldn’t</span>,
no matter how hard she tried. She used to tell
Mamma she couldn’t, sitting and eating a piece of
cake or drinking wild cherry bounce, while the tears
trickled down her cheeks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Now, when poor Priscilla appeared, Mamma said,
“Botheration!” softly, under her breath; but she didn’t
really mind, for Priscilla was the only one of Papa’s
relations who made her feel quick and clever and sure
of herself; and she moved twice as briskly, with an
important little frown, as soft as a wrinkle in cream,
between her eyebrows, after Priscilla came.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But she had to get her out of the kitchen, for old
Chloe’s puckered black face was getting crosser every
minute. So they went into the conservatory to cut
some flowers for Papa’s welcoming.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mamma loved her conservatory so! Papa said she
loved it better than she loved him, but, of course, that
was only his fun. There were the delicate drooping
ferns; the blood-red foliage of the dragon-plant; the
fuchsias, trained like umbrellas, all tasselled with crimson
and purple, umbrellas gorgeous enough to hold
over the heads of Chinese emperors. And begonias
with crimson-lined, silver-spotted leaves; intense blue
and purple velvet disks of cinerarias; creamy calla
lilies; and the little pouches of the calceolarias, golden,
crimson, maroon and rose colored, mottled and flecked—money-bags
for the elves. All along one side were
the spice-scented, winter-flowering carnations, with
their flakes and veinings and marblings of color—yellow
edged with a fringe of rose, rosy pink and
carmine. <span class='it'>La Pureté</span> and <span class='it'>La Pureté Variée</span>.
Mamma could never understand what Papa found
funny in “Variegated Purity”; but then she couldn’t
understand most of the jokes that amused him, although
she always gave them her gentle smile, puzzled
and polite.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Snip went her scissors through the stem of a tea-rose.
Snip! That was a little bit of myrtle. And
then back into the parlor to arrange charming unæsthetic
bouquets—rosebuds and fuchsia, an airy
tendril of vine, a spray of wax-white lemon blossoms,
with glossy dark leaves—while Aunt Priscilla followed,
talking in a mild steady trickle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“So I had my new dress laid out on the bed, and that
new fancy dinner-cap I got in Philadelphia, the black
lace one with the magenta ribbons, all ready to surprise
Willie. I meant to have them on when he came
home to tea, but I got to reading a new book by that
Mr. Wilkie Collins—‘Sister Rose; or, The Ominous
Marriage,’ it’s called. I read about it in Godey’s. It
said: ‘has merit and is neatly printed,’ so I knew it
would be good—so anyway—what was I talking
about?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Willie,” Mamma replied. She hadn’t been listening,
but she knew that all Aunt Priscilla’s conversation
rippled around that name.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes, Willie!” And she said the name tenderly,
as if her heart was giving it a little kiss. “Well, so I
hadn’t an <span class='it'>idea</span> how late it was; and the first thing I
knew, there was Willie home and Henry Allen with
him—come to tea—and me in my old crocheted
Zouave because it was so chilly, and my hoops off.
And nothing for tea but chip-beef because I told the
girl I’d make some whips for dessert—she don’t seem
to have much success with her desserts—girls aren’t
what they used to be—no faculty, and inde<span class='it'>pen</span>dent!
And even the green ones asking two dollars a week.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t talk to me about <span class='it'>girls</span>!” cried Mamma,
meaning <span class='it'>do</span>.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And so Willie—<span class='it'>O-oh!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Priscilla’s hands flew to her mouth, her mild kind
eyes swam with tears, and the small nose that looked
like a button in the middle of a puffy cushion flushed
pink. On the floor lay the glass swan her sleeve had
brushed from the table; and Mamma looking at it, felt
her eyes fill with tears too. She had never thought
about it much before, but, now that it was broken, it
seemed to her that it had always been her favorite
ornament. Poor little swan! It lay there with its
fragile neck snapped right in two, with the violets old
Toot had brought in from the cold-frame scattered
around it, and a dark patch beside it on the crimson
carpet that looked as if it had been bleeding. Yet
with those pale bewildered eyes looking at her so beseechingly,
she could only repeat to herself the family
saying:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Poor Priscilla means so well!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She was dreadfully tired by the time Aunt Priscilla
went home! But the parlor was decked satisfactorily
for Papa’s return. She loved her parlor, almost as
much as her conservatory. Each fat chair was a
friend, the sofa was a lover who said to her, “Come,
lie in my arms.” To walk on the carpet was to walk
on crimson roses. Between looped-back crimson window-curtains
hung cages of canaries and love-birds
that she had tamed with the endless patience of indolence
combined with a sweet nature, and taught to
perch on her shoulder and peck at lumps of sugar held
between her lips. Under the cages green iron plantstands
held geraniums soft as butterfly wings, their
velvet leaves banded with chocolate color, growing in
pots covered with putty into which she had pressed
acorns and little pine-cones. She had crocheted the
blue and green and scarlet worsted covers for the
goose-egg baskets in the windows, each holding a little
bunch of flowers or a feather of fern; she had made the
wax pond lilies floating on their mirror pools under
glass shades. And even a picture hanging on the wall
was hers—a castle on a lake, with mountains and
clouds for background. The sky and water were
painted; and the mountains were of gray sand; the
rocks, of red sand; and a road of yellow sand,
sprinkled on glue. The castle was made of white
birch-bark, with its dark reddish lining used for the
parts in shadow, and the windows and doors painted
in with ivory black; and, springing from the moss of
the foreground, were trees—bits of untwisted rope
with the strands divided at the top to make the limbs.
Cousin Lizzie and Aunt Priscilla had made sand-pictures,
too. The directions said you could have
white clouds, storm clouds, or sunset clouds, but
pointed out that sunset clouds were more difficult and
required more patience to paint. Mamma had been
contented with white clouds, but Cousin Lizzie had
done a sunset. As for poor Priscilla’s, hers had ended
in nothing much but glue all over everything in the
house.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And now to rest!</p>

<p class='pindent'>But almost before she had settled herself on the
sofa before the fire, Cousin Lizzie Blow came rustling
in, wearing a new black bonnet with scarlet verbenas
under the brim. Her black eyes, darting about the
room, made Mamma see a curtain looped unevenly, a
dead geranium leaf, and the dark patch on the carpet
where the glass swan had fallen.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I came to drive Mr. B. home—he rode over the
mare he sold Victor last week. He’s out in the stable-yard
with old Toot; and Maggie’s there too, superintending
affairs, trying to stand like Mr. B. and Toot,
with her legs apart and her hands behind her back. I
verily believe she’s such a tomboy because Victor was
so frantic for a son. I do hope that he’s—that you’re
not going to be disappointed again!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mamma’s peach-like cheeks flushed a deeper pink,
and her blue eyes looked as if they were going to fill
with tears. Goodness knew she had done her best to
give Victor a son! In the eleven years of their
marriage she had had seven babies, and was expecting
another. Victoria (named for Papa and the Queen
of England, but mostly for Papa) Anna Louisa,
Sophia, and Adelaide had breathed and died, and
Mamma often thought of them with tears. But then
she had tears for so many things that Papa never knew
whether her eyes were red because she had been thinking
of the lost babies, or because the sponge-cake had
gone flat, or because she had been reading “Miss Proctor’s
lovely, darling book of poems.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>What more could she do to give Victor a son than
have babies and pray? Even the little girls were helping,
having been taught to remind God, at the end of
all their prayers, that they would like a brother. Yet
Cousin Lizzie lifted her eyebrows and said, “Poor
Victor!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>However, everyone knew that Lizzie Campion had
been madly in love with her cousin, and had only
married Sam Blow to show she didn’t care when
Victor married Margaret Southmayd. So Mamma,
remembering, thought, “Poor Lizzie!” complacently,
and felt better.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I saw Priscilla scuttling along looking like an old
peddler woman. How <span class='it'>can</span> she go about so? Willie
gives her fifty times the spending money Mr. B. gives
me—almost as much as Victor gives you—and what’s
more, she spends it, and buys elegant clothes, and yet
<span class='it'>look</span> at her!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Poor Priscilla,” Mamma murmured automatically.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Poor Priscilla fiddle-dee-dee! Poor Willie, I say.
You wouldn’t believe how pretty she was when he
married her. She said she’d been here helping you. I
can imagine the help!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her hands flew about, pleating her little lace
handkerchief, smoothing it out again, drumming a
tune on the table. Her black eyes slipped this way
and that.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I suppose Victor’ll be home on the four o’clock
train?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Whenever she spoke Victor’s name, it was as if
strong hands that she loved—his hands—took hold of
her heart and twisted it. It hurt her so that some day
she felt she would fall down dead of the pain, and yet
she was always in a fever to say his name, over and
over again; in a fever to see him, to hurt herself
watching his dark ugly face with its bitter-sweet smile,
and the smiling passion in his eyes when he looked at
his wife.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, he wrote and said to have Toot meet him.”
Mamma’s hand sought in her bosom for Papa’s letter.
She brought out the dinner menu first, but the letter
was there too.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s been staying at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, but
he went twice to Delmonico’s and had turtle soup.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I don’t doubt he’s had a gay time,” said Cousin
Lizzie, getting up and moving about the room restlessly,
crushing a sprig of lemon-verbena between nervous
fingers, flapping over the songs on the piano.
“Have you anything new? ‘Oh Let Me Shed One
Silent Tear’—‘Too Late, Too Late’—you <span class='it'>do</span> like
merry songs, don’t you, Margaret? How does this go?</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>‘Not lost forever, though by fate now parted,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Not lost forever, though we meet no more;</p>
<p class='line0'>They do not wander lone and broken-hearted——!’</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>Yes, I’m sure he’s had a good time. Victor’s always
known how to amuse himself very well.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He had to go on business,” Mamma replied, displeased
and dignified. “Very important business. He
told me all about it before he went.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And he had, for although he had no illusions about
his wife’s mentality, he liked to talk to her about the
things that interested him. He had talked to her all
one evening about the business that was taking him to
New York; and Mamma had said, “Yes, love,” and
“<span class='it'>Well!</span>” and “I’m sure you’re right,” when the tone
of his voice seemed to call for such remarks. As a
matter of fact she hadn’t listened to a word, for she
had been crocheting a floral card-basket that called for
a great deal of counting. The bottom was a star of
white on claret that shaded to violet on the border;
and there were crocheted dark and light green leaves,
and straw-colored poppies shading into claret and
violet, all spangled with dewdrops of little glass beads.
It was only by the greatest effort she had kept from
counting aloud, “single chain over the last single chain
under the same chain, four chain, single chain under
chain before the second double chain, seven chain.”
Papa, kissing the top of her head, as sleek and brown
as a horsechestnut under its chenille net, had assured
her that it was a great relief to find that she agreed
with him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I must fly, love!” cried Cousin Lizzie.
“Mr. B. will be waiting for me. ‘Not lost forever,
though by fate now parted——’ No, not lost forever,
only until dinner time!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And at last Mamma could drop on the sofa, her
bright blue skirts swelling up around her. On the
table near by, in a work-basket petticoated with pinked
frills of violet and maize-colored ribbon, lay her sewing;
on it lay also the book she was reading, drawn to
it by the heroine’s name being Margaret, just like
hers. “ ‘Margaret, Marchioness of Miniver,’ by Lady
Clara Cavendish, authoress of ‘Lisa, or The Mesmerist’s
Victim,’ ‘The Divorce, a Tale of Fashionable
Life,’ ‘The Woman of the World,’ etc.” Perhaps,
presently, she would sew a little, or read. If she read
she would have to hide her book before Papa came
home, for she knew he would hope to find her reading
“The New Gymnastics for Men, Women, and Children,”
all full of dumb-bells. He was so modern and
full of upsetting ideas—exercise, and air, insisting on
having a window in the children’s bed-room lowered
an inch or two at night, although Mamma pointed out
to him again and again that everyone knew the night
air was injurious.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But just for the moment she only wanted to lie still.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Oh, how nice, how nice! She made little nestling
motions, settling deeper on her sofa, letting comfort
surround her softly. She was all soft and smooth and
round—so round that she sometimes thought, but only
thought, of drinking vinegar. She lay there, stretching
and stirring a little at first from sheer comfort,
then growing motionless; heavy and soft and white, a
lady made of white velvet and stuffed with down.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t636'>II</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Victor Campion met Margaret Southmayd a
few years after he graduated from Harvard,
when he went to visit her brother Henry, who had been
a classmate.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There had been guests in his honor on the afternoon
before he went home—young men a little stand-offish
and suspicious of the stranger who had so much money,
and had made the “Grand Tour,” and was just home
from England and inclined to talk about the opening
of the Crystal Palace in Hyde Park; arch young ladies
not at all stand-offish, tossing their ringlets and shrugging
their shoulders and making “saucy” replies.
There had been strawberries and cream, and croquet
with tiny mallets and huge balls banded with bright
colors that they sent trundling through wide wickets.
The shadows grew long on the gold-green turf, and
the girls’ great crinolines, swinging and swaying as
they bent above their balls, took on the tender colors of
flowers at twilight. And through the laughter and the
calling there sometimes sounded a note of sadness,
though they were all so happy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Now they were gone; and Henry had gone with
them to get the mail, while Victor and Margaret collected
the strawberry saucers and put the mallets and
balls to bed in their box in the dark summer-house
that smelled of moss and old rotting wood.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She wanted to talk to him, to say clever things to
make him laugh, as Alice and Emily had. He had
been with those two all afternoon—and tomorrow he
would be gone forever. But she wasn’t good at beginning
conversations, and she never knew where to
look when his dark eyes were on her; so she kept at a
little distance, turning her head away, pretending to
be busy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here’s another ball!” he called, picking it up out
of the wet pink and silver border of cinnamon pinks.
And he said it as if he were telling her a tremendous
and beautiful and funny secret that only they two
would ever know, so that she forgot to be shy, and
came smiling to his side.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In her spreading white muslin and rose-colored ribbons,
she seemed to him like a slender apple-tree in
blossom. He was a modern young man, but he did not
like the modern girl. It was the time of the bloomer
agitation, and every paper you picked up was full of
caricatures of ladies, with bonnets and ringlets, to be
sure, but also with trousers, bull dogs, and cigars.
And there were jokes about ladies “popping the question,”
or if they did not ask for the gentleman’s hand
in marriage, at least asking for the next polka or <span class='it'>deux
temps</span>. There were even jokes about colleges for
women, and caricatures of professors with bloomers
under their gowns and mortar-boards on top of their
lace caps. But there was nothing of the new woman
about Margaret. She no more wanted equal rights
than did the rose, sweet and cool in its broad fresh
leaves at her belt. At the very mention of bloomers
her white lids curtained her blue eyes, her cheeks grew
pinker; and, when she went to church to confess her
sins in her innocent voice, she wore a bonnet all rosebuds
and lace instead of one of those fast round hats
that were becoming so fashionable.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“See, here’s a firefly,” he said, and showed it to her
on his finger, its little green glow shining and darkening,
shining and darkening. She bent over it, showers
of ringlets falling like curtains on either side of her
pretty face. The dusky rose in the sky was deepening,
and little pale moths were fluttering over the flowers.
In the valley below them where a white mist was rising,
the frogs began to call. They still stood close together,
their heads bent to the firefly’s small green
lamp; but they had forgotten it, forgotten everything
except that her whole being was crying silently, “Tomorrow
we will be apart!” and his was answering,
“Tonight we are together.”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>The night before her wedding Margaret spent in
weeping. In the first place, the Southmayds were
dreadfully poor, and, instead of lace, her wedding-veil
beneath its orange buds would be plain illusion. And
then Mrs. Southmayd had had “a little talk” with her
daughter that was as terrifying as it was unilluminating;
and, after vague wide circlings about some secret
so sinister that it could not be mentioned, it had ended
in floods of tears on both sides.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her trembling voice and ice-cold fingers, when they
were being married, filled Victor with an anguish of
love. But presently, tying on her white silk going-away
bonnet, an artless advertisement with its lace
veil and orange-blossoms, while her bridesmaids
fluttered about her, envious and excited, and her tall,
dark lover waited for her below, she grew more calm,
became, in fact, complacent. And although his passionate
love never seemed to her “quite nice,” she returned
it with placid affection.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had fallen in love with her greatly because she
was not “strong-minded”; and indeed Margaret was
never what Miss Florence Nightingale called “a
female ink-bottle.” But, after they were married, he
tried for a little while to improve her mind.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Would you like me to read to you, darling?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, that would be very nice!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But first she would have to get her foot-stool, and
her work from upstairs, and her little quilted jacket of
rose-colored silk bordered with swansdown, in case
she grew chilly. And then:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Victor! My thimble! It’s up on my toilet
table!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And she would look so helpless and appealing that
he would tear upstairs, three steps at a time, and bring
it down to her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now then, I really <span class='it'>am</span> ready!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He would begin to read words that stirred the
depths of his heart with their beauty:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Bright star, would I were steadfast as thou art——</p>
<p class='line0'>Not in lone splendor hung aloft the night,</p>
<p class='line0'>And watching,——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Victor love! Before you get <span class='it'>really</span> into it!
Tell me, if you were me, would you have field flowers
on your new leghorn straw, or just a white lace veil
and mauve ribbons? Field flowers <span class='it'>and</span> a lace veil
would be <span class='it'>too</span> much, wouldn’t they? Or <span class='it'>wouldn’t</span>
they?”</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘No——yet still steadfast, still unchangeable,</p>
<p class='line0'>Pillowed upon my fair love’s ripening breast,</p>
<p class='line0'>To feel forever its soft fall and swell,</p>
<p class='line0'>Awake forever in a sweet unrest,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And so live ever—or else swoon to death.’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Surely she must cry “It’s about us. It’s just
exactly like us!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She hadn’t listened to a word. The fire was so
bright, her chair was so soft, and the sound of the rain
on the windows made her sleepy. But when his voice
stopped she rose out of her warm abstraction to make a
little humming sound that meant, “How very pretty.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you like it, my darling?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, thank you, Victor. It was sweetly pretty.
Oh, and just while I remember it—would you like a
tipsy parson for dessert tomorrow? You hardly
touched your syllabub today, and I <span class='it'>do</span> so want to
please you!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It seemed to him so touching that she should want
to please him that he could have fallen at her feet to
worship her. But he gave up trying to improve her
mind.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He gave up trying to make her exercise her body
even sooner, although on their honeymoon he had
bullied and coaxed her into a bath in the ocean. She
rather fancied herself in her gipsy hat and her bathing-dress,
with her feet looking so white and small under
the blue flannel ruffles; but going into the cold, rough
water was dreadful! Walking, except for gentle
ramblings about the garden, tired her, she said; and
the very thought of a horse filled her with panic. As
for skating, thank goodness, by the time the river
froze, she knew she was going to have a baby, and
could lie on her dear, soft sofa for hours and hours at
a time without being urged to do anything.</p>

<p class='pindent'>So Victor went “down state” with his brother Willie
and Sam Blow to shoot reedbirds, and railbirds, and
ducks in the marshes, rowed across the river to fish in
the New Jersey creeks, skated on the river in winter
nearly up to Philadelphia, and galloped over the fields
fox-hunting.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You ought to join in Victor’s pleasures more, my
dear, unless you’re anxious to lose him,” Lizzie Blow
advised Margaret. “It’s a poor plan to let a man find
out how well he can amuse himself without you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Margaret’s eyes filled with tears. She <span class='it'>did</span> join in
Victor’s pleasures! With her own hands, she made
him sandwiches of ham, home-cured in the old grey
smoke-house that huddled under its mantle of heaven-blue
wistaria; she ate, with cries of delight, the fat
little reedbirds he shot; she patted his horses, timidly
offering them apples while she tried to hide her terror
at their bared teeth and jerking heads; and she saw
that drinks were always ready when he and Willie
and Sam came trooping in, steaming punch when they
were cold and muddy, frosty mint juleps when they
were hot and dusty. And it was to “The Maples”
they always returned, not to “Meadowbrook,” the
Blows’ house, nor to “Riverview,” where Willie and
poor Priscilla lived in expensive muddle. Remembering
this helped Margaret to bear Lizzie’s trying
remarks with fortitude. And she would rather have
died than tear around the country as Lizzie did on
Sam’s wildest horses, with her cheeks like fire, making
such a figure of herself.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor had brought Margaret home to his father’s
house in Delaware; and two years later the elder Mr.
Campion died, leaving the place to his son. She
loved it, inside and out; the trees so tall they seemed
to hold the sky, the gold-green lawn, the carriage
sweep, and the fountain in front of the house, with its
great sheaf of white and green iron calla lilies and
leaves, each lily sending up a jet of water. She loved
the big grey house with its cupola and porches; the
round beds of asters that were blooming when Victor
brought her home, the pears that were dropping, heavy
and golden from the golden sun. She loved the view
of the river, blue, or slate-colored, or <span class='it'>café au lait</span>, with
its sailing ships. She loved the negro servants, their
soft voices and ready laughter and melancholy songs.
She loved her deep carpets, the snow-drift of her bed,
the delicious food that old Chloe cooked. And oh, she
did love her pretty clothes, after piecing and contriving
and making over her old dresses for so long!
Her gowns of apple-green glacé, black velvet, mauve
and primrose silk, her black lace shawl with its swirling
ferns and deeply petalled edge, her white lace shawl
as delicate as frost-work; her little parasols the shape
and color of hyacinth bells; and the pearl and primrose
tinted gloves; and small white mists of cobweb
pocket-handkerchiefs, fragrant from lavender
fagots.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And she loved Victor, too. She loved him very
much, indeed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>As she had told him, she did so want to please him!
But there was only one thing he didn’t have that
he wanted, and that was a son.</p>

<p class='pindent'>So kneeling in church in her best shawl and bonnet,
and by the broad bed in her long-sleeved high-necked
nightgown and lace-frilled nightcap, she sent up
prayers detailed as marketing lists:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dear God, please bless Victor and Baby” (or
“Maggie and Baby,” or “Maggie and May and Baby,”
as time went on) “and let her not have so much trouble
with her teething; and bless Mamma and Papa, and
bless Henry, too, but don’t let him ask Victor for any
more money; and make old Chloe not so cross; and
make me good and make my sore throat well; and
keep us in safety and happiness and give us a little
boy. Amen.”</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t915'>III</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Nobody could keep away from the parlor, because
Papa was there, home again. Old Chloe,
in a clean yellow print sprigged with scarlet and a
fresh turban, brought eggnog; Albert carried in logs
for the fire; and old Toot, though he knew perfectly
well he had no business to, looked in to say that he
was trying to teach the little yellow cow’s two-day old
calf to suck. As for the little girls, they couldn’t get
near enough to Papa. But it was to Mamma that all
his being was pouring out, pouring out.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They gave him his birthday presents right away—they
simply couldn’t wait any longer. Mamma had
embroidered him a pair of slippers—tigers! They
quite frightened Lily, the tigers stared at her so, and
showed such red tongues. It had been a great piece
of work, calling not only for black Berlin wool, and
white, and light and dark scarlet, but seven different
shades of brown. And then such a question as to
whether the background should be bright sky-blue or
pale green. All the little girls had given their
opinions.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then she had had her own hair and theirs made into
a watch-fob for him; and even that wasn’t all, for old
Toot had driven them to Wilmington one day to the
photographer’s, and they had had their <span class='it'>Cartes de
Visite</span> taken. The little girls could have spent hours
gazing at their pictures, and Mamma herself took a
good many looks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie had made him a small, flat silk pin-cushion,
shaped like a fish, with net scales, and fins and tail of
pins. It had seemed beautiful to her while she was
making it—a little blue fish with silver tail and fins.
She could imagine the sensation it would have made
swimming among the mud-colored minnows in the
brook. But now she wanted to give Papa something
precious, marvelous—a milk white charger, or a ruby
as big as a pigeon’s egg. She wanted to do something
hard to risk her life, to lose her life for him. And
instead of saying, “Happy birthday with my love,
Papa dear,” prettily, as Mamma had told them all
to do, she almost threw her present at him, scowling
dreadfully and muttering, “Here’s something—I guess
it’s horrid.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>May had made him a pin-cushion, too—it was all
the little sisters could think of. But hers was a lute,
with a small round spot of black velvet glued on to
look like the opening, and long stitches of gold thread
for the lute-strings. She and Maggie had been rather
troubled because they were both giving him pin-cushions,
but, fortunately, it turned out that that was
exactly what Papa had been longing for.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily’s present was an allumette stand filled with
colored paper allumettes. It was of fluted wire
covered with cerise and Napoleon blue chenille, and of
course, Mamma had made it, really, guiding Lily’s fat
little hand in the weaving of a strand or two. But
Lily thought she had made it all herself, and told
Papa so.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And Papa had presents for them, too—presents
from New York.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Victor love, you shouldn’t have! We didn’t
expect <span class='it'>presents</span>!” Mamma cried, looking as pleased
and excited as her little daughters.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh yes, we <span class='it'>did</span>, Mamma!” protested May.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There were enamel lockets, black, with forget-me-nots,
for the little sisters. They had on light blue
chambray dresses, low necked, with scalloped ruffles,
white muslin aprons, and their best long lace-edged
drawers, and the lockets looked so pretty, tied on with
long blue ribbons. And then there were three wax
dolls, dressed as babies, and as pink as if they had just
gotten out of boiling hot baths. Maggie thought that
she would rather be chopped up into little tiny pieces
than let Papa guess that she had hoped her present
would be a bow and arrow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s all I have for you three.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s another package in the hall,” suggested
May, in case Papa had forgotten it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, fie, pet, don’t be greedy!” Mamma reproved
her, shocked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mamma’s present was a parure of flowers; a wreath
for the hair, a bouquet for the corsage, and sprays for
the skirt. They were made of cornflowers and wheat,
and they came from Paris!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is it true that shawls are out, and everyone is wearing
zou-zous?” Mamma wanted to know. But Papa
hadn’t noticed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>However, he had noticed lots of other things; the
heavy traffic, the stages, the newsboys and apple-venders
shouting in the streets. Homesick for the
country, he had walked one day all the way to the
Central Park, and seen the beautiful bird houses, each
with its name painted on it, “City Hall,” “Battery,”
and so on, built for the sparrows imported two or three
years before from England. And at his hotel he had
made the trip up to his room in the Vertical Railway,
going straight up like a frog in a well-bucket.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Victor! How dreadfully dangerous!” cried
Mamma, pressing her hands above her heart and looking
quite faint. “Thank goodness, we have you safely
back!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wouldn’t be afraid to ride in the Vertical Railway,”
Maggie boasted, but May copied Mamma,
pressing her hands to her apron bib and crying, “Oh,
Papa! I’d have been frightened to death!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Papa had brought home some new music, “Dream
on, Lillie,” and “If Thou hast Crushed a Flower,” a
duet called “Home of My Youth,” and two humorous
songs, “The Girls are not so Green” and “What they
do at the Springs.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I hope they’re not <span class='it'>too</span> comical, love,” said Mamma,
remembering one called “Skedaddle” that had been.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They tried over the duet together.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Home of youth! all thy pleasures</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Are impressed on my heart——</p>
<p class='line0'>Ere they fade from my mem’ry</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Life itself must depart.’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Oh, beautiful voices, rising and falling together!
May had taken her new doll to the kitchen to show
Chloe and Martha, and Lily had trotted after her;
but Maggie leaned against Papa, weak and heavy with
love, feeling through all her body his kind, careless
hand on her shoulder.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘In the land of the stranger,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sighs and tears are but mine——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>Mamma sang the heart-broken words in a voice like
the chirping of a contented canary, and Papa’s voice
swelled out, jubilant, triumphant:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Sighs and tears are but mine!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>and he looked at her, smiling, forgetting Maggie, forgetting
everything but Mamma.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How have you been, my darling?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Nicely, thank you, Victor.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Margaret, Margaret——!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sam brought over your new horse,” she said
quickly, smiling and embarrassed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I must go out and have a look at her. I’m afraid
I shouldn’t have bought her, Margaret—my business
didn’t turn out quite as well as I thought it was
going to.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, but you wanted that horse so much! I’ll save
some way—I’d rather fix up my old hoops and make
them do another year than have you go without!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>How funny and sweet and touching she was! He
loved her so that he could hardly bear it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Margaret—I have something to show you——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was in the big parcel in the hall—how had he
ever gotten it home in the steam-cars? When the
paper fell away, there pranced a rocking-horse, so
bright, so freshly painted that it was still a little
sticky, dappled grey and white, with wide scarlet
nostrils.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“For the baby!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“For <span class='it'>Lily</span>?” But she knew he didn’t mean for Lily.
Her head drooped, her eyelids fell. She was dreadfully
embarrassed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No—for our little boy.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They all went out on the lawn to see Papa try the
new mare. The sky was full of ragged clouds, streaming
and free, and the river was covered with whitecaps.
How the wind blew! It sent the water from
the iron calla lilies streaming to one side in thin veils,
it banged the shutters, it blew the little girl’s skirts so
that you could see their drawers up to their waists.
They jumped up and down, wild with excitement, and
they could feel their new lockets jumping too, tap, tap.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s a beautiful mare!” screamed Cousin Lizzie
to Mamma, trying to make herself heard above the
wind. The Blows had come as Papa was trotting
down the road, and stood with Mamma on the steps
watching him galloping back.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Full of spirits—nervous as a witch!” Cousin Sam
shouted. “That’s the kind Victor likes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Papa tore into the driveway, Trusty yelping behind
him, and flung up a welcoming hand to them just
as the wind caught a little white shawl from his wife’s
shoulders and flung it flapping into the mare’s face.
As she swerved with a great buck, he shot into the air
and fell head-first on the road.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“God, his neck’s broken!” Sam Blow cried: and
Lizzie began to scream, thin and high above the
wind, like a rabbit in a trap. But no one paid any
attention to her, for Margaret had gone crumpling
down onto the steps.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the last hour of Victor Campion’s birthday his
son was born.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t1158'>IV</h1>

<p class='pindent'>One of the cherry trees in the garden was dead,
and over it grew a wistaria vine, lavendar-blue,
a heaven-colored tent. The long sprays of flowers
fell down like a curtain, the light that came through
was stained a lovely color, and there was a lavender-blue
carpet of fallen petals on the grass. The bees in
the wistaria made a sound like the sound in a sea-shell,
only louder, but they never bothered the little girls.
Old Toot said they wouldn’t, and they didn’t.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dem bees ain’ gwine bodder you, ’outen you bodder
dem.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Black Susannah brought the baby out, lying on his
pillows in the big wash-basket, and left him under
the wistaria where his sisters were playing. Fat little
Lily tried to give him some of her bread and butter
and sugar, poking it at his mouth, and he lifted his
feeble voice in a mewing cry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Lily!</span>” cried Maggie, outraged and important.
“Naughty! You <span class='it'>mustn’t</span> give Baby things to eat!
Was he frightened, then? Did he want his Maggie?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She knelt by the basket smiling at little Victor; and
in her old brown dress, with her thin face gentle and
bright with love, she looked like the youngest shepherd,
kneeling to worship the Baby who lay in a manger.</p>

<p class='pindent'>May came and knelt on the other side, putting out
a finger for the tiny groping fist to close around.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Look! He’s holding on to me! He loves me best
because he knows I love him best!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You do not love him best!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>May affected not to hear, but said to the baby in a
high small voice, copying Mamma and Aunt Priscilla:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Did</span>dun he know I loved him besty, besty, best?
<span class='it'>Did</span>dun he then? He says, ‘yes,’ <span class='it'>he</span> knew!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You do not love him best!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I do so!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I love him best because I’m oldest, so now, miss!
And, if you ever say I don’t, I’ll knock you down!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily didn’t understand about the baby.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did Papa bring him from New York?” she asked;
for she remembered the big parcel in the hall the day
Papa came home. She and May had picked a tiny
hole in the wrapping paper, feeling dreadfully guilty
and as nervous as two mice, until suddenly a large
eye stared out at them and they had fled in terror. It
might have been the baby.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yo’ ma find him in de ga’den undeh a cu’ant bush,”
Chloe told them; but May and Lily had looked for
babies among the currant bushes every day since, and
hadn’t found one, so they were beginning to doubt it.
Aunt Priscilla said Dr. Chase had brought him in his
bag; and Cousin Jennie Blodgett, who stayed with
them while Mamma was ill, and let them dress up in
her bonnet and shawl, and made them cup-custards that
they didn’t like very much but ate politely, told them
the stork had brought him, and showed them the stork’s
picture in “Hans Andersen.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mamma said God had sent an angel with the baby
to comfort them because Papa had gone to heaven.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There seemed to be a difference of opinion among the
authorities.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie was inclined to believe the Dr. Chase
theory, for she had seen him go into Mamma’s room
with his black bag; and later, lying awake on a tear-soaked
pillow, she had first heard that little mewing
cry. But, since Mamma thought it was God and an
angel, she wasn’t going to tell her it was only Dr.
Chase.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They thought at first little Victor would slip away
like Victoria, Anna Louisa, Sophia and Adelaide. He
was so tiny, so weak. Wrinkled and red as a poppy-bud,
he lay wrapped in warm blankets, slept, woke to
weep, and slept.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We will both go to Victor,” said Mamma pathetically,
propped among her pillows, while her tears fell
into her bowl of arrowroot.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Try just a <span class='it'>spoon</span>ful of the wine jelly, love!”
begged Cousin Jennie, with tears on her own cheeks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How can you ask me, Jennie?” Mamma’s eyes
reproached her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“For little Victor’s sake!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>For little Victor’s sake, she tried; and presently,
somehow, the saucer was empty.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For little Victor’s sake, they would all do anything.
He was the center of the household, the center of the
universe. In April, a great fleet sailed down the river;
further south battles were fought; presently summer
added its heat to the fever that burned in the prisons;
the sun set in melting pink and gold; the stars shone
in the sky; but these things were unnoticed. Victor
sneezed his first tiny sneeze like a kitten’s; he smiled
his first smile; he was carried to church in his high-waisted,
puff-sleeved christening robe that Mamma
had embroidered all over with incredibly tiny flowers
and leaves, and was given his father’s name. He was
the man of the house, and his women surrounded him,
worshipping.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Uncle Willie tried to explain the state of Papa’s
financial affairs to Mamma.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you mean we’re <span class='it'>paupers</span>?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, no!” Good heavens, was she going to cry
again? “You’re very well-to-do, only Victor didn’t
leave as much as I expected him to. The war’s hit us
both; though nothing to compare to any number of
others.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But I don’t see how the war concerns us—we
haven’t any slaves.” For Victor’s grandfather had
freed his slaves by manumission long before, though
they had gone on living with the family, and were
buried, when they died, at the feet of their masters
and mistresses in the family burying-ground.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well—there are other considerations,” said Uncle
Willie, prudently skipping on. “But the point is,
you won’t be able to go on quite as you have been
going. Have you any idea what you’ve been spending
a year?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m afraid I don’t understand anything about
figures,” Mamma replied complacently.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, ladies aren’t to be expected to. But, of course,
you’ll want to be near your father and mother now,
and a smaller house would make a great difference.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, no, Willie! I could never leave The Maples.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But it’s a big place, and expensive to keep up.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dearest Victor would wish us to stay,” said
Mamma with placid finality. It was her answer to
everything. “Dearest Victor would wish it,” or
“Dearest Victor wouldn’t,” and simply meant “I will”
or “I won’t.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“God give me patience!” Uncle Willie cried within
himself; and he thought quite kindly of Aunt Priscilla,
who at least knew she didn’t know anything.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We can economize in so many ways, now that
darling Victor’s gone,” Mamma said through her
pocket handkerchief, when Willie’s conscientious
floods of figures ceased. “The meat bills will be
<span class='it'>nothing</span>! Gentlemen have such hearty appetites. But
I’m sure I don’t care if I never see a roast of beef
again—just a little dish of creamed sweetbreads now
and then, and we have our own chickens. And
<span class='it'>clothes</span>! The price of a gentleman’s top hat alone!
And, perhaps, I might possibly let Susannah go—she’s
very lazy. I don’t know what girls are coming to
nowadays,” she added, but absently, not receiving or
expecting an answer. She had said it so often, and
would say it so often again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But Victor wouldn’t want me to give up the conservatory,
or the horses and carriages. And I suppose,
after all, the children should have roast beef—and
Susannah <span class='it'>is</span> very fond of the baby.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, you’ll still save on poor old Victor’s hats,”
said Uncle Willie sardonically.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes! And coats as well, and waistcoats and—and
other things.” She blushed brightly. She had
nearly said “trousers” to a gentleman.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The woman’s a fool,” he thought, though not with
any shock of discovery. But the May day was warm
and beautiful, the lilies of the valley growing beside
the porch sent up their perfume, and Mamma looked
pretty and appealing, though plump, in her black dress
and little white crêpe “Marie Stuart” bonnet, so that
presently, his nose buried in mint and the frost thick
on his glass, he was thinking indulgently, “Poor little
woman!”</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t1368'>V</h1>

<p class='pindent'>The baby wailed and drooped through the heat of
his first summer; but, when Mamma cut long
sprays of pungent chrysanthemums for the brass vases
that stood on the altar to the glory of God and in
memory of Mary Clarissa Campion, when burrs pattered
down from the chestnut trees, and the frost
touched the persimmons with orange and vermilion,
he grew stronger, looked about him with interest, and
presently was amiably plunging from outstretched
hands to outstretched hands.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Other events beside Victor’s first steps, his first
words, his teething, and his whooping-cough took
place, though none seemed so important. Trains grew
on to dresses, and crinolines were full at the bottom
instead of the top, so that ladies turned from tulips to
morning glories. Pamela bonnets, like saucers with
strings, became so fashionable that even Mamma, who
prided herself on being conservative, succumbed; although
she only wore hers in the carriage, considering
it far too conspicuous and coquettish to wear when she
was on foot. Lizzie Blow stopped going to church
and took up Spiritualism, tipped tables, and asked for
one loud rap if “yes,” two if “no.” One day, when
the stars were full of portent, the Prince and Princess
of Wales were married in London and old Toot died
in his whitewashed cabin under the weeping willow.
His place was taken by Caesar, who, under Mamma’s
direction, planted ribbon borders and the fashionable
new pin-cushion beds here and there about the place;
and two new iron urns on the terrace boiled over with
petunias and sent up jets of ornamental grass. In
winter, when she could not be among her flowers,
Mamma learned new stitches in knitting and crochet,
and everything in the house became covered with wool-work
as things in damp countries are covered with
mould—even the bird cages dripped crochet borders.
And, when she was not busy with other things, she
wound bandages and felt badly about the war—almost
as badly as she felt about Victor’s croup and the
naughty way in which Lily had taken to stealing sugar.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Terrible and stirring names sounded through those
days, piercing even her dreamy mistiness, the Seven
Days’ Battles, Fredericksburg and Gettysburg, Lookout
Mountain and Missionary Ridge, the Battle of the
Wilderness. Her eyes would brim over with tears,
and whispering, “Oh, the poor mothers!” she would
catch her son to her breast.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The soldiers went south past The Maples, on
foot, by train, or sailing down the river in great fleets
of many-masted schooners. The sails of the full-rigged
ships swelling in the wind, shining in the sun,
stirred the heart and made war wonderful and
romantic; but the tired men plodding past in clouds of
dust on the road were different. Looking at them, the
bugle-calls sounded faintly, the glory dimmed, and
pity filled the heart. The little girls watched them
from behind the hedge, and once Lily thought she saw
Papa marching past, and ran out to him. But she got
mixed up in the marching legs and knew she was lost
forever until a kind soldier with a grey mustache
picked her up, smudged the dust and tears on her face
with a hand as spiritually gentle as it was physically
rough, and swung away to become one of those countless
tiny figures fighting together against the infinite
and dramatic background of space, stars, thunder, and
eternity or annihilation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The talk of war was everywhere—monitors, the
draft, buying substitutes. Between North and South,
they felt pressure from both sides. Mr. Brown was
ridden on a rail by masked men—which side were
they on? No one knew. Cousin Willie, supposed to
have southern sympathies, was threatened with tarring
and feathering, but so was that violent Yankee, Mr.
Farley. The war charged the air, changing everything,
giving everything an excitement, an emotional
tensity. Wellington Carter was being stupid at the
store, breaking the candles and dropping the change
on the floor—and before the candles all were burned
he was being buried at Mount Pleasant with military
honors. Sorrow was the common state, and boys who
had marched away to fife and drum came home by the
streets of silence.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Thank God, Victor is a baby!” Mamma cried,
listening to the church bell tolling. “And after all
the suffering this one has brought, surely, surely,
there’ll never be another war!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The war was like distant thunder; threatening,
warning, although the sun shone on the still garden.
But it was Maggie in whose heart it echoed loudest.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Aunt Priscilla bought one of the new green-grey
Rogers’ groups, and put it in the bay window along
with the draggled lace curtains, the hanging baskets of
sick ferns, and the parrot in his dirty cage; and Maggie
would steal in to look at it, aflame with pity for the
wounded scout, wandering in the swamp supported by
a ragged negro. So sick, so sick, the veins standing
out terribly on his arm under a tourniquet. Once,
when no one was near, she touched her lips softly,
quickly to that tortured hand, while a wordless passion
flooded her to help—she didn’t know how, she
didn’t know who—just to help. It was only her
adoration of her little brother that kept her from running
away and trying to enter the army disguised as a
drummer boy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then one April day, when Caesar was showing the
children a nest of blue eggs in a hawthorn tree and
Mamma was admiring her tulips, Uncle Willie
rode over to tell them President Lincoln had been
assassinated.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was like a sad, exciting story in a book to them,
it was not reality. Their world was The Maples;
and the road, the river, the yellow day-lilies in the
tall wet grass along the meadow fence, marked the
world’s ends.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Year after year, the frogs thrilled out their song,
the ferns uncurled their woolly balls, the sweet rain
fell, and summer came, just as if Papa had not died.
Mamma was so happy with the children, the garden,
the lawn, gold-green in the summer sunshine, the
golden lazy days. She would never admit, never even
realize consciously that his death meant a strain removed;
but even his loss, dimmed by a few years,
added to the perfection and harmony of her days like
minor chords of music.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her black crêpes melted into violet muslins; less
and less often she said to the awed and solemn little
girls, “You <span class='it'>do</span> remember dear Papa, don’t you, darlings?”
More and more often the cornucopia, held
before his picture by a bronze hand in a neatly fluted
cuff, was empty of its pansies (for thoughts). Nothing
was left of his passion, his jokes, his funny songs, his
sudden flashing tempers, his love—nothing but a sigh,
and a few tears from Mamma on a wet day, when the
children or the servants had been tiresome or when she
had a headache; his watch-pocket still hanging over
the big bed in her room; and Maggie’s missing him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Sometimes it seemed as if Maggie were the only one
who ever thought of Papa now. But someone else
remembered.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Poor Aunt Priscilla needed matches and cheese from
the store, so she stood at her back door and feebly called
towards the stable:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Washington! Oh, Washington!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Washington, fat and black as a blackbird too
fat and old to fly, felt the afternoon was over-hot for
a drive, and remained where he was, comfortably
hidden, mimicking his mistress under his breath:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Wash’n’ton! Oh, Wash’n’ton!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So Aunt Priscilla started on foot for the store, trailing
her magenta draperies through the dust, her face
turning from mauve to purple as she plodded along.
She was thinking she would have to give up and sit
down in the ditch in the shade by the side of the road,
when Cousin Lizzie Blow in her little low pony carriage
came rolling along in a cloud of dust, and picked
her up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’ll have a stroke if you don’t take care,” she
said, her eyes slipping over Priscilla’s wet purple face,
the point lace collar pinned on all crooked, and the
lunch crumbs nested in the folds of her bodice. She
herself was exquisitely neat. Her black and scarlet
looked as impossible to disarrange or dim as the black
and scarlet of a ladybug; and she was cool-looking,
too, except for her red cheeks, one a little redder than
the other, almost as red as the poppy-colored Cashmere
of her Garibaldi bodice.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What on earth are you walking for on such a day,
with your stable full of horses?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wanted some cheese—the mice are so bad and
Willie likes it, too—me, but it’s hot!” She mopped
her face with a worked collar she had snatched up,
mistaking it for a handkerchief. “I couldn’t find Washington—I
guess he was busy somewhere, and I don’t
like to stop him. He says the work’s almost too much
for him anyway. Wasn’t last night awful? I couldn’t
stay in bed—I sat by the window and fanned myself
until after two. Willie says it was the hottest night in
ever so long.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Was it? I didn’t notice.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Didn’t <span class='it'>notice</span>! Why, what ever were you doing?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I was talking to Victor.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Precious little fellow!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, he seems a right nice little boy in spite of the
way they spoil him—too bad his ears stick out so
dreadfully. Margaret ought to do something. But
I don’t mean him. I mean his father. He was speaking
to me last night.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Aunt Priscilla gave such a start she nearly went
over the side of the pony carriage into the dusty yarrow.
Of course, she knew about Lizzie’s spiritualism—but
she hadn’t mentioned it for ever so long—and
<span class='it'>this</span>—oh, <span class='it'>dear</span>!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He talks to me every night. It all began with the
table tipping—don’t you remember the afternoon you
did it with me?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Did she remember? Could she ever forget? She
hadn’t slept for nights afterwards, and she had been
almost afraid to go to church on Sunday, for fear God
would strike her dead for being a necromancer. And
Cousin Lizzie told her that was nothing to what the
table had done afterwards, when she was alone.
Aunt Priscilla had a vision of it running after Cousin
Lizzie like a little dog, leaping up and down stairs on
its mahogany legs and three claw feet, rapping out
dreadful messages. Willie and Priscilla had gone to
see the Blows one evening, and, when Lizzie set out
home-made wine and sponge-cake on that table,
Priscilla nearly had hysterics. She would as soon have
eaten sponge-cake off a coffin. When they went home,
she poured out the whole story to Willie in a flood of
tears, and it was bliss to hear his shouts of laughter
and to be told that they hadn’t been wicked, only a
pair of fools. Still, she never liked to be in the room
with that table, and as for playing solitaire on it, as
Lizzie did——!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“At first I had to have things—the table, and raps
to spell out messages—but he speaks right to me now,
since I’ve learned how to listen.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She smiled to herself, thinking of the coming night,
with her husband asleep and the whole house still. She
would get up and go softly out of the room, out of the
house, and lying on the cool grass, looking up at the
pale gleaming locust trees, she would make herself
empty as she had learned to do—empty, to receive
him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, goodness!” Aunt Priscilla crammed the collar
against her mouth and looked as if she were going to
cry. “<span class='it'>Goodness</span>, Lizzie, ain’t you scared to death?
Do you <span class='it'>see</span> him?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I feel him,” Lizzie said, smiling again her secret
smile, and a little shudder of ecstasy went through her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, but—oh, gracious! Do you suppose it
really can be him? You’d think he’d go to Margaret
if he went to anyone——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Cousin Lizzie said nothing, flicking a horse-fly from
the pony’s twitching flank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Does she know?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t intend to tell her. You see, he never speaks
of her.” Her voice was chanting, triumphant.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Aunt Priscilla felt ready to faint. What a relief to
draw up before the store, to see Mr. Trewhitt hobbling
down the ferny steps to take their orders and tell them
it was a hot day, to drink the cold spring water he
brought them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lizzie hardly spoke on the way home, except to
say casually, “Oh, by the way, you needn’t repeat
what I told you to Willie or Mr. B.—men are so
funny,” and to mention that she was going to put up
her brandied peaches tomorrow. But poor Aunt
Priscilla felt as if she had been for a ride with a witch
on her broom-stick!</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t1664'>VI</h1>

<p class='pindent'>“What is thy duty towards thy neighbor?” asked
Miss Hessie Farley, brushing a bluebottle fly
away from her nose; and the children chorused:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My duty toward my Neighbor is To love him as
myself an todotoallmenasIwouldtheyshudountome.
To lovonoransuccor my father and mother. To honornobey
the civil authority. To sumit myselto all my
governors teachers spiritchal pastors an masters——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Z-zzzzzz-ZZ-zz” the bluebottle droned. Miss
Hessie’s jaw set and her eyes watered as she tried to
keep from yawning. A field sloped up like a curtain
in front of the Sunday school door, its drifts of daisies
dazzlingly white in the sunshine.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What is the inward and spiritual grace?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And the children, bored and docile, told her:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A death unto sin an’ a new birth unto righteousness
for beinby nature born in sin and the childerna
frath——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The little Campions saw their carriage go lurching
and rocking past the Sunday school door down the
steep rutty lane that led to the carriage sheds. Caesar
always drove Mamma to church a little early, so that
she would have time to fill the brass vases that stood
on the altar in Grandmother’s memory. Grandfather
had built the church, that looked, on its steep hillside,
like a big brown hen sitting on its egg of Sunday school
room. The reredos was sacred to his memory, the altar
cross to Papa’s. The lectern was so that no one should
forget Great-Aunt Clementina, and the big chair by
the altar, with its inlaid cross of olive-wood beads
from the Mount of Olives was to remind everyone of
Greatgrandfather.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Blow your nose, honey,” Maggie whispered to little
Victor. “Blow!” She seized his nose gently in her
handkerchief, and he obediently blew, his absent eyes
fixed on the shimmer of daisies. May and Lily were
in Aunt Priscilla’s class, and Victor should have been
with the littlest children who were being told so
earnestly by Mrs. Trewhitt, the storekeeper’s wife,
about the Infant Moses, but he had wept so on his
first Sunday that he had been allowed ever since to sit
with Maggie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The three girls had on plaid silk dresses of blue and
cream and brown, and little straw hats tilted over
their eyes, with blue streamers hanging down behind;
they each carried a prayer-book with a sprig of shrub
and a clean handkerchief between the leaves; their
handkerchiefs for use were in their pockets. Victor’s
light blue jacket had white silk braid all around the
edges, laid on in loops, as if someone had been
practicing writing letter <span class='it'>l’s</span>.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When Sunday school was over they trooped up
to church, and sat in their pew with Mamma, good,
but inexpressibly bored. They rather enjoyed the
hymns and singing, “We Praise Thee, O God,” and
there was always the hope that a dog might stray in or
the boy who pumped the organ bellows might grow
dreamy and let the air out; but these distractions
weren’t to be counted on, and oh, the weariness, the
long exhaustion of the lessons and the sermon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They couldn’t have stood it, if they hadn’t had their
own private diversions. Maggie watched herself
doing the most wonderful things on the cross-beams,
running along them over the heads of the congregation,
hanging from them by her toes, leaping from one
to another. May went on with the endless story she
was always telling herself. She was the beautiful
princess who had just been locked up in a tall tower
on an island in the middle of the sea; the prince would
rescue her, but he would have his own troubles doing
it. Lily looked for the faces made by patches of damp
on the dark raspberry-red walls and pale sea-green
ceiling. As for Victor, he leaned against the well-filled
smoothness of Mamma’s lilac silk senorita-body, looked
at his shoes stuck straight out in front of him, looked
at the lozenges of colored glass at the top of each
pointed casement window—red sky and leaves, green,
purple, yellow, and blue as bright and dark as bluing.
Then he yawned, and looked at the altar cross that, as
he looked, blurred into a dazzle of light, came swimming
out to him, then faded into darkness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When church was over, they couldn’t get into the
carriage and drive right home, for Mamma had to talk
with people like Miss Hessie Farley and Mr. and Mrs.
Almond, and speak pleasantly to people like Mrs.
Trewhitt and Miss Perry, the seamstress. They told
each other what a lovely day it was, but how hot—quite
unseasonable. Mrs. Almond said Mamma’s
lilac bonnet, with its white crushed roses under the
brim, was sweetly becoming; Miss Hessie said she was
having a new postillion-coat made of that very shade,
but couldn’t decide on the shape of the buttons—did
they think the Egyptian fashion was going to take?
Because if so, she would have triangular buttons, like
the Pyramids, but one didn’t want to be extreme. Mr.
Almond said it was a fine year for cherries, if the robins
didn’t get them all. Miss Martin, the organist, hurried
out of church with her music under her arm,
small and grey and whiskered like a mouse, and
squeaked “good-mornings.” And Mrs. Almond, and
Mrs. Trewhitt, and Miss Perry, and Miss Martin, and
all the other ladies, spoke to little Victor in the small,
lilting voices children endure with such patient
disdain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lunch on Sundays was cold, to save the servants.
There was Saturday’s roast-beef, and bread and butter,
and then a great tin pan of solidified sour milk, slippy
and pale, called “bonny-clabber,” and eaten unenthusiastically
with cream and sugar. The little girls
didn’t like it, but Mamma said, “Eat it up,” so they
ate it up. But Victor wouldn’t, so he had apple jelly.
Mamma said he was delicate and his appetite must be
tempted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>After lunch Mamma took a nap, and the children
went into the garden with their Sunday books. The
week-day books were all put away, together with the
dolls, the cup and ball, the battledore and shuttlecock.
There were no games on Sunday, no excitements except
when something happened like the first crocus or
the first snowstorm. Funny that God didn’t seem to
understand that exciting things mustn’t happen on
Sundays.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie had “ ‘Blind Lillias; or, Fellowship with
God. A Tale for the Young.’ By A Lady,” and May
had “ ‘Arthur and Marion’s Sundays,’ by Mrs. Bradley
and Miss Neeley.” The two youngest looked at the
pictures in their Old Testament story-book, terrifying
pictures—brazen serpents, and fathers about to sacrifice
their little boys. And Trusty lay panting across
their feet, hot and heavy. They were all heavy and
depressed, with Sunday surrounding them like an invisible
bell shutting out the air. Even the garden
looked different. The beech-tree that was their playhouse
on week days knew that the dolls and the little
thick white china tea-set were put away; the apple
tree knew it wasn’t to be climbed; and the pansies
and feather-ball poppies seemed to be saying, “Go
away, children, we can’t play today.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Monday morning! Monday morning! Oh, the
cool touch of the dew-wet grass on little bare feet!
The box hedges were covered with soaking cobwebs;
the heavy dawn-pink peonies pearled with dew held
showers for whoever shook them. In the kitchen
shed Martha washed the clothes, rainbow-colored suds,
foaming up around her dark arms, singing, and sounding
as happy as if she would burst—</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Nobody knows de trouble Ah’ve seen,</p>
<p class='line0'>Nobody knows but Jesus.</p>
<p class='line0'>Nobody knows de trouble Ah’ve seen,</p>
<p class='line0'>Glory Hallelujah!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>The children went tearing over the lawn, and Trusty
circled yelping around them, mad with delight.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>The Circus had passed in the night—there were the
elephant’s footprints in the dust of the road! Little
Victor, hands on knees, squatted to look at them in
solemn rapture.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let’s play circus!” cried Maggie. “I choose to be
elephant!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, I choose to be elephant,” said Lily, but she
knew they wouldn’t let her be.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I choose to be effalunt!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, Victor, you can’t be, you’re too little.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor wept. He was young, but he had learned
how to rule his women.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But, when he was elephant, he didn’t know what to
do. He just stood still. So they gave up having a
circus, and went to play house under the beech-tree.
The beech-tree spread its branches like a cool tent, and
under it was dark moss and between its grey toes little
ferns came up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chloe had let them bake on Saturday, so there was
real food to put on the heavy little china plates today,
four baked dough mice with currant eyes, grimy grey
and hard as rock. They resisted the children’s teeth
and put up a brave fight when hammered between two
stones. And Maggie had a candle and a match in her
pocket, to bake a winter pear over. It was horrid, all
smoky and black, but she made them eat it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie was busy trying to break up one of the
currant-eyed mice, and May lay flat on her back and
wouldn’t play properly. But Lily and Victor and
Chloe’s little black granddaughter Lossie, with whom
they might play in the garden but not in the house,
talked together politely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How do you do, Mrs. Jackson?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Howdo, Mis’ Jackson.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You mustn’t call me Mrs. Jackson, too, Lossie.
<span class='it'>You’re</span> Mrs. Jackson.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What-all mus’ Ah call you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, let’s see. I guess you better call me Mrs.
Featherby. Go on, Lossie. Say how do you do, Mrs.
Featherby. You say it too, Victor honey.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How do do, Mrs. Featherby.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Howdo, Mis’ Featherby, Ah done thought Ah’d
come to dinnah.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I’m <span class='it'>so</span> glad you did. Is this your <span class='it'>dear</span> little
boy?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No-o <span class='it'>ma’am</span>, dis yeah’s mah husban’. He’s a right
well-off genelmun. How is you-alls chillun?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, they all have scarlet fever today. This is
my little girl.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, I’m not,” said May. “I’m not playing.” She
lay on her back pretending the quivering green light
falling through the beech leaves was green sea-water,
and that she was lying down, down at the bottom of
the sea. She was always pretending that she was
under the water.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She loved Mamma’s room better than any place else
in the world. She loved the pale grey wall paper with
its pattern of whiffs of white lace caught up by moss-rosebuds;
the broad bed; the ruffled pin-cushion like
a great white water-lily; the amber glass slipper; the
brown china trunk for matches; and the great rainbow
splashes that Mamma’s crystal-stoppered perfume
bottles spattered about the room. And Mamma’s
clothes had an irresistible attraction for her—velvet
jackets with small gold hanging buttons, some in the
form of bells, some of pears or flowers; boots topped
with bands of fur or pheasant feathers; lavender
gloves; and the fashionable new satin ribbons studded
with small gold flies. But trying on a velvet <span class='it'>sortie
de bal</span>, or tipping a frilled sunshade over her shoulder
in front of Mamma’s bureau with all its jutting
shelves, she would be drawn into the deep, dim mirror,
faintly green, and see herself, a little mermaid, through
sea water. On the bureau stood a small house made
of shells. That was the Sea-King’s palace in Hans
Andersen.</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='pindent'>“In the deepest spot of all stands the sea-king’s palace; its
walls are of coral, and its tall pointed windows of the clearest
amber, while the roof is made of mussel shells, that open and
shut according to the tide. And beautiful they look; for in
each shell lies a pearl, anyone of which would be worthy to
be placed in a queen’s crown.”</p>

</div>

<p class='pindent'>How May loved the story! She thought of the
marble statue of the handsome youth, standing on
bright blue sands in the dancing violet shadows cast by
a red weeping willow through whose branches the
fishes swam. She was the little mermaid swimming
deep, deep in the sea—swimming around that beautiful
statue, swimming up through the water while the
silver bubbles streamed behind her—up to see and to
love the young prince who would never love her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fairy-tale house that interested greedy little
Lily more was the ginger-bread house in “Hansel and
Gretel.” Good little cakes, and almonds on the roof!</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie considered herself too old for fairy tales.
Her favorite book was “The White Chief; a Story of
New Mexico,” by Mayne Reid, and she sternly made
the others act it out when they were longing to tie grass
sashes around the waists of hollyhock dolls, or beat up
mud chocolate puddings—or anything rather than be
scalped with the trowel from the potting-shed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>As for Victor, he couldn’t read much of anything
yet, although he could point out <span class='it'>V</span> for Victor and <span class='it'>C</span>
for Campion in the alphabet book.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t1976'>VII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Gently the Campions slipped from being rich to
being “well-to-do,” from being “well-to-do” to
being “comfortable,” and from being “comfortable”
to “having to be just a little careful.” Mamma didn’t
understand it, but remained placid and bought sealskin
sacques and muffs for herself and her daughters,
for certainly they had to be kept warm somehow; and,
not until after the fur coats were bought, did it occur
to her that she might have knitted them all hug-me-tights
to wear under their cloaks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was a continual trickle of new trifles for herself,
a coral colored peplum, fringed with jet, a fanchon
bonnet like a velvet dish of currants, a few new
braids and puffs, or a straw embroidered white tulle
veil. And, for the children, there were Roman sashes,
worked petticoats, red and white flannel sailor-suits,
embroidered with anchors. These things didn’t count,
and as for the larger purchases, the walking costumes
and carriage costumes (both used for the same purpose
by Mamma), the wine-colored curtains for the dining-room,
and Prince, the new pony for Victor, she bought
those only because something (not rappings or tipping
tables) seemed to tell her that her husband would have
wished her to have them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Besides, she saved—ever so much. All the horses
but Stella and old Charlie were sold. The wine bills
were nothing compared to what they had been when
Papa was alive; as for ball-gowns, she hadn’t been to
a ball since she became a widow; and, although she
had been unable to resist one confection of arsenic
green satin and gold wheat, it billowed alone of its
kind in her wardrobe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Cousin Lizzie Blow thought it was outrageously extravagant
of Mamma to have a pair of ear-rings
painted with Trusty’s head. Of course, everyone was
having ear-rings with dogs, but only the very rich were
having their own pets, and most people were quite
content with fancy dogs. She was herself. But
Mamma said <span class='it'>Mercy!</span> she would have felt too funny
with strange dogs in her ears. And Cousin Lizzie had
such queer ideas, anyway—she had given up bonnets
entirely, and taken to wearing a hat like a muffin with
a wing stuck on one side just as if she were an unmarried
young lady. Cousin Lizzie said to everybody
that Margaret Campion was so extravagant and
self-indulgent she would certainly end in the Poor
House, and Mamma, all aglow, said how sad it made
her to see Lizzie making herself so fast-looking and conspicuous;
so the two were about even.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Willie and Priscilla had also slipped from wealth to
“enough to get on with perfectly nicely.” After
serious talks from Willie and frantic endeavors to
count up, that looked as if she were doing five-finger
exercises, Mamma, in panic, would do something drastic,
have crumb-pudding three days running, or cut up
her best mantle to make a suit for Victor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Now and then, with pain in her heart, she sold a bit
of land. Willie had sold a lot of his. Slowly the tide
of the outside world began to creep in around the
islands of The Maples and Riverview.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Blows had prospered. Sam always had a
reputation for being “smart and sharp.” But what
good was his money, when he and Lizzie were so unhappy?
He shut himself up in his room almost every
evening now; but, if anyone called, he would come
out, walking carefully and talk a great deal, very distinctly,
asking questions that had just been fully
answered, and telling anecdotes to the people who had
just told them to him. And Cousin Lizzie would sit
looking at him, looking and looking, with eyes as
bright as if red lamps were burning behind them, and
never say a word.</p>

<p class='pindent'>One way that Mamma had saved was by teaching
her daughters herself. Sitting around the dining-room
table, they read, “spoke pieces” whose pathos
reduced Lily to pleasurable tears, and did sums with
a doubtfulness and wildness shared by their teacher.
But these lessons would never do for Victor. He was
to go to the Rectory, where Mr. Page had a school
for little boys, and presently to the Academy in town—a
trip in the steam-cars every day! He could hardly
wait! And finally to Harvard, like Papa.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He stood in the hall of The Maples on the hot
September morning of his first day of school, while
his women circled around him and Caesar, with Stella
hitched into the dearborn, waited at the front door.
He had all new clothes for school. Loose trousers
coming below his knees were buttoned with big china
buttons to his full-sleeved white shirt, and over white
stockings he wore heavy laced boots. He had to
stick out a foot every now and then and have a good
look. He was terribly proud of his boots, the soles
were so thick.</p>

<p class='pindent'>One hand held a round straw hat with a blue ribbon;
the other his new satchel, containing a slate, and two
of Chloe’s molasses cookies to eat at the eleven o’clock
recess. He felt grown-up, important, and a little
confused.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“May, pet, will you just run up to Mamma’s room
and get the little black fan from the table by her bed?”
said Mamma, dropping on to the horsehair-covered
sofa, and fanning herself with her lace pocket-handkerchief.
She was going to take Victor to school, this
very first morning. “Oh, Lily, his pencil! In the red
glass pitcher on the sideboard—well, then, in the bowl
where the nutcrackers are. Mercy, child, you’d be a
good person to send looking for trouble! Maggie,
you might just slip down cellar, and see if you can’t
find a nice pear for him to take.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>That was Mamma’s way—to make things sound
easy by saying “just.” “You might just make an
angel cake, Chloe,” she would suggest; or, to one of
the children, “Will you just slip over to Aunt
Priscilla’s with this pat of butter?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Downright Maggie resented it, resented, too, Mamma’s
honey-sweet voice asking, “Don’t you want to
help Martha dust the parlor? Don’t you want to pick
strawberries this morning?” Maggie would do as she
was told, but she resented having to say that she
wanted to.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t want you to do it at all unless you do it
willingly,” Mamma would say, her blue eyes wet.
But what she really meant, though not in words,
hardly with conscious feeling, was, “You must do as
I wish, and say you want to, no matter whether you
do or not, and then everyone—I—will be happy and
comfortable.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It wasn’t fair.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The clock on the stairs struck nine, which meant
that it was half past eight. When it was nine it
would whirr and strangle; and at half past nine it
would strike ten. Once you got used to it, it was
quite easy to follow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The sisters ran up and down stairs, their rust-brown
skirts whisked through the doorways on last scampering
errands; and Mamma and Victor got into the
carriage. Her claret-colored draperies rose, billowed,
spread, engulfed him like the waves of the Red
Sea engulfing a very small Egyptian. Caesar
gathered up the reins, and they rolled off, while
Maggie, May, and Lily, admiring and envious, waved
as if the carriage and Stella were a ship and the turnpike
was the broad blue sea.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Old Mr. Page was tying up his dahlias that the
wind had blown over in the night, when the carriage
drew up at the Rectory. He was a dreamy old man
with long, silky silver hair, who was supposed to be a
splendid teacher because he preached sermons full of
Greek and Latin, and wrote beautiful poems about
“Friendship” and “Nature,” signed “Rusticus,” that
sometimes appeared in the “Poets’ Corner” of the
Wilmington newspaper. He tried hard to be a good
teacher whenever he remembered that he had a school;
but sometimes when the boys were studying he would
step out of the open French window for a refreshing
glance at his garden, and lose himself for the rest of
the morning in pruning his grapevines, smelling his
roses, or standing still, lost in his thoughts, far, far
away from seven little boys.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He came towards Mamma and Victor across the
fallen leaves, taking off his hat, in which he had stuck
flowers in the Tyrolean fashion, which he much admired.
The seven little boys stopped throwing horsechestnuts
at each other in order to have a good look
at the new pupil.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here is Victor,” said Mamma, looking as if she
were going to cry. “He is going to try to be good and
study very hard, Mr. Page.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“So you’re going to try hard, are you?” asked Mr.
Page, looking through him mildly and vaguely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor’s hand tightened on Mamma’s, and he looked
up for directions.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, Mr. Page,” she prompted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, Mr. Page.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well spoken, Young Meritorious,” said Mr. Page,
patting his head. “Come and see my tea-roses, ma’am—they’ve
never been more beautiful:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘And thou, most lovely Rose,</p>
<p class='line0'>Of tint most delicate,</p>
<p class='line0'>Fair consort of the morn;</p>
<p class='line0'>Delighted to imbibe</p>
<p class='line0'>The genial dew of heaven,</p>
<p class='line0'>Rich vegetation’s vermeil-tinctured gem——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>And his hand beat time gently on the little boy’s silky
head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But if Mr. Page didn’t know it was time she went
and school began, Mamma did. She turned to say
goodbye to Victor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>What had happened to him? What had he done
to make himself look so tiny? She felt as if she were
looking at him through the wrong end of her opera-glasses.
How could she leave him alone, so little and
young? She bent to kiss him, and drove away
weeping.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The other little boys were scandalized. To be sure,
their mothers had brought them to school once, long
ago, but that was when they were young, last year.
Behind their geographies they made loud smacking
noises and whispered to each other, “Goodbye,
Mamma’s darling, <span class='it'>sweet</span> little baby girl!” Victor
pretended not to notice them, but the ears that Cousin
Lizzie Blow complained of, turned scarlet, and presently
one tear trickled down his cheek. But he
whisked it off with a finger when no one was looking,
and a tortoise-shell butterfly floating in at the window
cheered him up a little.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When recess came, he followed the other boys out
onto the lawn. He felt too shy to take the pear and
the molasses cookies out of his satchel. He didn’t
quite know what to do. Mamma, or Maggie, or May,
or Lily, had always been there to tell him before.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The little boys became terribly busy. They tore
out of the open window shouting, “Not it! Not it!”
at the top of their lungs. They began a clamorous
and confusing game. Victor stood and watched them,
his blue eyes wide, his face solemn and excited. Presently
he gave a little prancing jump. He was like a
lid that lifts on a boiling pot.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Can you catch?” one boy shouted at him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes,” said Victor, used to Lily’s mildly tossed
bean-bags.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boy threw the ball, which bounced off from
Victor’s middle and rolled into a mint bed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The little boys laughed and laughed. They went
on laughing long after they were comfortably through,
leaning over and letting their arms hang limp, reeling
in circles. They shouted to each other, “Can you
catch?” and replied, “Oh, yes, perfectly wonderfully
grandly!” and flung the ball and did catch it, generally.
They didn’t throw it again to Victor. He
might as well have been a boy made of air, dressed
in an air shirt and air pantaloons, for all that they
seemed to see him. But they had never shouted so
loudly, thrown their ball so nonchalantly, fallen down
so often, or panted so hard. They were putting him
through childhood’s cruel initiation; but also they
were showing off to him for all they were worth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had never played with children before, except
with his worshipping sisters and the colored children
he could order about. He felt something heavy
swelling in his breast, and his eyes and nose began
to prickle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He thought of home, and the thought was too much
for him. He was like the small seaweed-colored fish
that will swim back desperately to their seaweed, no
matter how often they are taken away from it. There
only they are safe. There the seaweed, and the crabs,
and the mollusks, and themselves, are all alike, mottled
and streaked with the same olives and pale
ambers. The clear water is a place of terror, of
swooping seagulls and hungry bigger fish—but, oh, the
peace, the safety of the seaweed!</p>

<p class='pindent'>The bell rang, and, as the boys crowded back
through the window, Victor slipped under the hedge
like a raindrop soaking into the earth, and began to
run towards home.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He ran faster than ever before in his life. His
heart pounded, his breath came sobbingly, his fair hair
stuck on his forehead in dark wet points, and water
ran down his face. One stocking kept coming down,
and he clutched at it as he ran, and pulled it up. Then
in a minute down it would slip, and he would clutch
and pull, and down it would slip——</p>

<p class='pindent'>He heard a pounding—thud, thud, thud! He knew
it was Mr. Page running after him—Mr. Page grown
gigantic, Mr. Page with his black hat as high as a
mountain above the floating white clouds of his hair,
and the flowers stuck in his hat as tall as mountain
pine trees——</p>

<p class='pindent'>But, when at last he couldn’t run another step,
there was no one there. The road was empty; the
fields of grass and wildflowers were still except for the
song of the grasshoppers; the river flowed blue and
peaceful in the sunshine.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He didn’t dare stop very long. He began to run
again, clutching at his stocking, kicking up the dust
with his nice new shoes.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Martha was churning in the kitchen shed. Slap,
slap! The butter was coming beautifully, in little
yellow lumps. Albert came in to get a pail of water
at the pump and said something polite to which she
responded with a yell of light-hearted laughter. Then
she gave another yell, a different one.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor panted up the steps, still clutching at his
stocking. His breath came in loud, hiccuping sobs;
his face was streaked and furrowed with dust and
sweat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Wh-where’s Mamma, M-martha? Where’s
Mamma?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mah <span class='it'>goo</span>ness, honey! Pump him a drink, yo’ Albert—let
Martha wipe off yo’ face, po’ lamb—an’ den
run find his Mamma and tell huh he’s done come
home.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mamma was in the grape-house with Caesar. The
leaves and the heavy bunches of grapes made a broad
cool pattern against the sky’s blue dazzle, and there
were shadow leaves on her wide straw hat and on her
arms, creamy and smooth between her flowing sleeves
and her loose gardening gloves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The air was moist and warm and fragrant. Caesar
stood on the old broken chair and cut a heavy bunch of
grapes, Mamma lifted up the leaf-lined basket and he
laid the bunch in, so gently, as if he were laying a
sleeping baby in its cradle. But she let the basket
drop and came running, when Albert told her Victor
had come home by himself.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He sat on Mamma’s lap, her tender arms around
him. He looked at them all with round eyes over
the top of the tumbler, silver with coolness. He
drank and drank and drank. And they were all there,
around him, Mamma and the girls, old Chloe in the
doorway still holding the bowl she had been mixing
corn bread in, Martha, and Albert, and Caesar with his
scissors, and Trusty thumping his tail on the floor.
Home drew around him, welcoming him. The little
fish was safe in his seaweed again.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t2352'>VIII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Each year the pencil marks to show how much
the children had grown crept up and up by the
side door, like a rising tide. And then Maggie’s
stopped rising, and she was a grown-up young lady;
though you wouldn’t have known it from seeing her
in the morning, in her shabby old dress, up in the
cherry tree helping Albert pick cherries, or galloping
around the meadow bare-back on Stella, or, in the
woods, pulling off her stockings and dew-soaked shoes
to wade knee-deep with Victor in the foam-flecked
brown brook.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But, when they drove to evening parties, or rolled
up their own parlor carpet and sprinkled candle-shavings
over the floor, she blossomed out with bustle and
chignon, high heels and long ear-rings; and every bit
of her was young lady then, except the little boy feelings
inside of her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The world was flowing in on them—here a little
trickle, there a rush. So many more people than there
used to be, and so much to do! Dancing and picnics
and tableaux—oh, life was such fun!</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>May tried to pull Mamma’s gown together at the
waist while Mamma looked Maggie and Lily over.
She knew May would be all right, but the other two
were so careless.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie’s straight brown hair was parted in the middle,
and brushed, sleek as satin, over a huge bun of
chignon. Her cream and brown striped silk dress
cocked up like a wren’s tail behind in a big bustle,
and then cascaded off into a little train, and Mamma
had lent her a lace frill for her open collar.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily was in blue, to match her eyes, and her fair
flowing hair, crimped except just at the ends from its
tight braiding, was pushed back of ears from
which dangled balls of silver filigree as big as cherries.
Both the girls looked very neat—but, oh dear,
what big waists, thought Mamma with a sigh. May
was the only one who managed to have a wasp waist.
She didn’t mind how hard they pulled her corset strings.
Holding on to the bed post, drawing in her breath,
she would get Lily to pull on them with all her
strength. She didn’t care how much too small her high-heeled
slippers were, either, just so she could squeeze
her feet into them. Feeling like the princess in the
fairy tale who walked barefoot over fire and swords,
she would dance all evening, laughing and talking,
though when she got home she would burst into tears
from pain and exhaustion.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t slouch, Lily. Will you <span class='it'>ever</span> learn to stand
properly?” sighed Mamma.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, but Mamma dear! I <span class='it'>do</span> get so tired doing
that old Grecian bend!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, remember to when you’re in company, or I
shall die of mortification. Back up to me, Maggie,
your pannier’s crooked. Now <span class='it'>don’t</span> fidget——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Pull in, Mamma!” said May, tugging at Mamma’s
grey satin. “<span class='it'>There!</span> Oh, I <span class='it'>wish</span> you’d let me have a
low body like yours—I hate these old high necks!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mamma took a placid look in the mirror at her
bosom and shoulders bulging out of her black lace
and grey ruching—bulging, but with such delicious
creaminess. She tried to keep her mouth from quirking
up at the corners as she remembered that Mr. Alfred
Lacey had told his gentlemanly sister Mrs. Thornton,
who good-naturedly told Mamma, that he had
never seen finer shoulders. She wondered if he would
be there tonight—perhaps she’d better wear her garnet
necklace. The dark red made her bosom look
even whiter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Anyway, you <span class='it'>might</span> let me have some evening
hair,” May complained, pouting, her mouth a bunched
red bud. She was the beauty of the family, with her
long lashes and deep warm coloring, her tiny waist
and round little bosom; but her hair wouldn’t grow
long. It just foamed in short curls all over her head,
looking so silly and babyish. If <span class='it'>only</span> Mamma would
let her have some coronet braids or a rippling switch
to flow over her shoulder! But Mamma would only
laugh and pinch her cheek gently and say fifteen was
too young for evening hair.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Young and warm together under the buffalo robes,
while the sleigh-bells rang—merry—mournful—they
drove from all over the country for miles around, over
the snow to the party.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily liked best to play the piano while the others
danced. She felt shy and awkward, sitting waiting
to be asked, not knowing whether she was more afraid
that some one would ask her, or that no one would.
She could play “Water Lily Waltz” and “Over the
Waves” pretty well, and parts of lots of others; but
she was a conscientious performer, and when she
played parts wrong she would stop and say, “Oh dear!
Wait a minute!” and play them over again. It was a
relief to the dancers when some good-natured mother
would shoo her off the piano-stool.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now then, Lily Campion! Run and have a good
time with the young people!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I don’t mind playing, Mrs. Austen, really I
don’t.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But she would go docilely, and waltz with kind
fathers and little brothers. And often Mamma’s new
friend Mr. Lacey would give her a turn, bounding as
lightly as a balloon on his neat little feet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Or they all went skating together. Oh, how beautifully
the young gentlemen skimmed over the ice, cutting
grape-vines and figure eights, leaning far over
with one leg stuck out behind, showing off to the girls,
who glided demurely about with their little hats with
pheasant feathers and cascading veils pitched over
their noses, and their tiny muffs held tight to their
waists beneath their rounded busts.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie skated beautifully—too well to charm the
gentlemen. Victor and his young friends darted
about like water-bugs, using the others for bases and
bumpers. Lily was fat and her ankles were weak, so
she stood on the side of her feet and watched the
others, most of the time. As for May, the part she
liked best was having her skates put on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What tiny feet!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, now you’re making fun of me, and I think
it’s downright mean in you!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, I’m not, on my honor, I never saw such little
feet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodness, I don’t see why you think my feet are
little! I think they’re <span class='it'>huge</span>! Yes, I do! <span class='it'>Truly!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Between winter and spring came Lent. They all
went to church for the Litany every Wednesday evening;
and the Campion girls gave up candy. Lily gave
up desserts, too, because she loved them so. She would
stand looking at a charlotte russe or a Bavarian cream
on the sideboard until she couldn’t bear it another
minute and had to rush away, out of temptation. Once,
halfway through Lent, she fell. Putting what was
left of the Bavarian cream into the slide on Martha’s
evening out, she seized a tablespoonful and crammed
it into her mouth. But between her haste and the
size of the mouthful and her shame at breaking her
promise to Lord Jesus, she nearly choked to death.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then out from the long dark tunnel of Lent into
the brightness of Easter. The parlor fragrant with
Mamma’s fat sausage-shaped hyacinths of creamy pink
and silvery blue—fat ladies with beautiful souls—the
eggs that had been boiled tied up in bits of colored
calico that dyed them in such charming splotches and
blots of color. Victor and Lily ate four apiece for
breakfast on Easter morning, and Maggie ate two, but
Mamma and May were delicate, and only had one
each. And then they drove to church, to sing, happy
and self-conscious in their new straw hats:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘The strife is o’er, the battle done;</p>
<p class='line0'>The victory of life is won;</p>
<p class='line0'>The song of triumph has begun.</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alleluia!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Lacey sang away in his pew, too, so tidy, so
shining, with his pink face, his kind round blue eyes
and silky nut-brown whiskers, his neat gloves and
beautifully laundered linen, that he looked as if he
must be kept under a glass bell from Sunday to Sunday.
And as soon as church was over he came hurrying
out to help Mamma into the carriage.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When summer came, they all went sailing, and had
picnic suppers on the Jersey shore. The girls in their
blue flannel boating costumes unpacked the baskets,
and made coffee over the driftwood fires the young
men built, and pretended they were very busy and
mustn’t be bothered. “Ah-h-h” sighed the little
waves, coming in over the sand, drawing back.
“Ah-h-h—” The breeze brought them the river smell—the
cool wet smell of mud and reeds and soaking rotten
wood; and over the Delaware hills the sunset deepened,
violet, orange and rose. One white star trembled.
Victor raced along the shore. Other little boys
might be left at home, but not he. He found a dead
crab, and chased the girls with it—<span class='it'>ugh!</span> the smelly
thing!</p>

<p class='pindent'>And everyone was so funny.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Does your mother know you’re out?” they called
to each other; and oh, the laughter when some young
lady would cry, “We’ve forgotten the spoons!” The
very word spoon, the sight of a spoon, was enough to
send the young men off into fits of laughter, while the
girls tried to look innocent and demure.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Sailing home through the moonlight the laughter
would grow gentle, would die.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘My Bonny lies over the ocean,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My Bonny lies over the sea,</p>
<p class='line0'>My Bonny lies over the ocean;</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Oh, bring back my Bonny to me!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Swish, swish! The liquid moon-silver flowed
gently, strongly back from the bow of the boat, and
young hands groped for young hands, and found them.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Bring back, bring back,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Oh, bring back my Bonny to me——to me!</p>
<p class='line0'>Bring back, bring back,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Oh, bring back my Bonny to me!</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Last night, as I lay on my pillow,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Last night, as I lay on my bed,</p>
<p class='line0'>Last night, as I lay on my pillow,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I dreamt that my Bonny was dead!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>And it would have been too sweet, too sad to bear
if some one had not sung, mock-tragically:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“Oh, bring back my Bonny, and don’t be so funny——!”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t2607'>IX</h1>

<p class='pindent'>They went to the woods for Christmas greens,
jolting along in the farm cart. The pine trees
were all plumy and feathery with the snow that came
sifting down from a lead-colored sky. The brook
was frozen over, but if you listened hard you could
hear it faintly chuckling, gurgling, flowing along under
the ice. Victor, with his cheeks as red as his mittens,
jumped up and down, shouted, fell flat in the
snow and pretended to swim, because he was so happy.
Just the snow was enough, just driving to the woods
and bringing back that feathery, swishing green load
was enough—and beside these, Christmas was coming!</p>

<p class='pindent'>They all went up to the Sunday school room in
the evening, to make the Christmas decorations for
the church by the light of the dim oil lamps in their
brackets. Lily and Victor made little bunches of
cedar and laurel—two sprays of laurel and one of
cedar, and then two sprays of cedar and one of laurel—and
handed them up to the others, who bound them
with string on long ropes. Lily had tried to make
the ropes, but her sprays always came tumbling out,
just as poor Aunt Priscilla’s did. How fragrant the
evergreens were, and how black they made everyone’s
hands! Even Mr. Lacey’s hands were black. He
was bunching for Mamma, making her laugh with the
ridiculous things he kept saying, and laughing himself,
rich peals of tenor laughter. She could always
understand his jokes—so many good puns! Since he
and she had become such friends, she had begun to
make little jokes herself, and grow girlish and arch
and saucy. The girls never laughed when she mispronounced
humorously, or when she talked funny
French and said “Silver plate” and “Fox pass,” but
Mr. Lacey did, and it made her feel so young again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When the decorations were finished, the ropes and
the wreaths and the big star of box and holly to hang
over the chancel, and when Mr. Almond’s knife was
found, the scraps of pine and cedar were burnt in the
stove, roaring up sudden and white, and then popping
like little pistol shots. How fragrant! They all
gathered around the stove to warm themselves before
going out into the winter night, while Uncle Willie
stood on a chair and blew out the lamps.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodnight! Goodnight!” The light from the bobbing
lanterns falls in circles on the snow, climbs up
the tree-trunks and over the dark hedges. The stars
are shining, the sleigh-bells are chiming. Wait! This
is the perfect moment! Stay with us for a little while!
But the moment is over. The bells are no longer loud
and merry—they are sad and faint—they have
passed—they are still.</p>

<p class='pindent'>That moment before the parlor door was opened,
Victor felt as if he would burst. And when he saw
the Christmas tree he was struck dumb for a moment.
Then he began to jump up and down, screaming with
joy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The tree was too tall even for the high parlor ceiling.
Its head was bent over, and it looked as if it
were bowing to them, holding out its dark green silver
woven skirts, and bending its head, crowned with a
silver star.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There were glass baskets and bells, and wax birds
in their gilt wire cages. There were nets cut out of
colored paper, holding candy, and more candy in small
lace bags. There were gold and silver stars, and
gilded walnuts, and strings of cranberries and popcorn.
The stout shrimp-pink wax angel was there,
swimming away, with a green twig under her for a
life preserver. She was always there, every Christmas,
and so was the cardboard folding church, with
windows made of paper like colored glass, and sparkles
all over the snow on the roof. By the church
door stood a cardboard Santa Claus in a white fur
coat, giving a basket of toys and pink and yellow
apples to a little cardboard boy and girl. In front of
the church on the snowy ground was printed a poem
in German, and the Campion children felt as if it held
such a secret, such an answer, if they could only read
it! But none of them could, and Mamma couldn’t
either.</p>

<p class='pindent'>On the end of a branch hung a little silver glass
bell, and when Victor set it ringing gently with the
tip of his finger it seemed to set another little bell
ringing in his own heart.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They had their presents; they went to church, each
wearing a sprig of holly, like so many plum puddings,
and screamed:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘<span class='it'>Shout</span> the glad tidings, <span class='it'>ex</span>ultingly si-hi-hi-hi-hing!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>They came home and had an enormous dinner; and
now they were in the parlor, stuffed and sleepy.
Mamma, in one of the fashionable new low chairs
in which people lay stretched out with their chins
propped on their chests, was half asleep in front of
the fire, with “Poppies in the Corn” fallen to the floor
beside her, only rousing now and then to ask one of
the girls to stamp out sparks on the carpet that always
proved to be bits of tinsel from the tree. May had
fallen asleep on the sofa, and Lily was comfortably
weeping over her new book and automatically eating
the raisins she had found in her stocking that morning,
while Maggie, in spite of her years, lay full length on
the floor with Victor, languidly setting up and knocking
over his Christmas tin soldiers.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then there was a pealing of sleigh-bells at the
door, and Martha scuffling through the hall, grumbling
and tying on her apron as she went, to let in a whirl
of snowy air and bells and laughing Mr. Lacey, buttoned
warmly down to his ankles in a tight fawn-colored
coat with a little fur collar, and wearing a
low crowned brown derby hat like a mould of chocolate
blanc-mange in a curly rimmed saucer.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, my gracious me!” cried Mamma, scrambling
up in a panic, and settling her braids in what she could
see of the overmantel mirror that gleamed in little
chinks through Japanese fans as a pond gleams
through an overgrowth of spatterdock pads. Mr.
Lacey came bounding in, all chill and pink and fresh.
He had brought Mamma a Christmas present—a pug
dog! <span class='it'>Café au lait</span> color, with a tight screw of tail
and a squashed-up funny little black face, and with
a big scarlet bow on its collar.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh! <span class='it'>Oh!</span> For <span class='it'>me</span>?” cried Mamma. “Oh, you
sweet pet!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Thank you, thank you!” caroled Mr. Lacey
roguishly, trilling his laughter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Mr. Lacey! Fie! How can you? I mean
this sweet little pet—yes, it <span class='it'>was</span> a pet, so it was. Let
me see, what shall I call it? What shall I call it,
children?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Call it Trixie.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Call it Brownie.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What shall Mamma call the doggie, Victor,
precious?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t know, Mamma.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I didn’t like to think of you without any dog
at all,” Mr. Lacey explained. For silky, black Trusty
was dead. He was buried in the garden, and already
a little peach tree was growing up out of his
grave, from the stone of a peach that the weeping
Lily had absentmindedly eaten at his burial.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Call it Lassie, Mamma,” May suggested.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s a good idea, honey. Lassie! That’s very
pretty! Here, Lassie, Lassie, Lassie. Here, little
Lassie!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Lacey was in a quandary. How to tell her
delicately that Lassie was a Laddie? Perhaps he had
better get his sister to tell her—but no. Em had a
way of putting things so strongly. So presently—not
too soon to be embarrassing—he called to the
pug:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here, Lad! Here, sir!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Mamma couldn’t bring herself to say “Laddie”—it
would have made such a point of it! So, delicate
as Mr. Lacey, she announced after a while that
she had changed her mind, and was going to call her
pug Brownie, after all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Lacey liked everybody so much, he couldn’t
believe that anyone didn’t like him. But Victor
didn’t like him in spite of pennies, in spite of tricks
with his fresh finely embroidered pocket handkerchiefs.
He hated to be laughed at, and he knew that sooner
or later Mr. Lacey would begin laughing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, sir!” cried Mr. Lacey, flinging a kind arm
about the little boy’s stiff and unresponsive body.
“You’re just the young gentleman I’ve been wanting
to see. I have a question I want to ask you—let’s
see if you can answer me this. When—do—young
ladies—eat a musical instrument.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t know.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t know, Mr. ——,” Mamma prompted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t know, Mr. Lacey.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You mean to say you don’t know when Miss
Maggie, and Miss May, and Miss Lily, eat a musical
instrument? A bright young gentleman like you?
Oh, come! I don’t believe that, you know!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A flute?” ventured Victor uncertainly, and turned
scarlet at Mr. Lacey’s peals of laughter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A flute! That’s good, upon my word! I must remember
that one! No, my lad, I see I’ll have to
tell you. When they have a pianoforte—a piano—for—tea!”
And his laughter pealed again, while Victor’s
serious face remained unchanged.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, never say die! Maybe you can tell me this
one, young Sir Sobersides! What is the difference
between a postage stamp and a bad boy?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Victor couldn’t tell him that, either.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Lacey wasn’t just a joker. No, indeed! He
could talk about all sorts of deep subjects. He had
read Mr. Darwin’s “Origin of Species” and his new
book, “The Descent of Man”—well, at least, not exactly
read them, but he had glanced through them,
and knew what they were all about. Mamma, of
course, was horrified at the very idea (her idea) of
Darwinism. She <span class='it'>wasn’t</span> descended from monkeys!
And what about the Bible? But Mr. Lacey, leaning
back with his finger-tips pressed together and a neat
boot wagging, said there might be something in it—he
didn’t say there <span class='it'>was</span>, mind you, but there <span class='it'>might</span> be.
Mamma was almost in tears before she could persuade
him to say that he himself didn’t believe a word
of it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The snowy twilight deepened, and the room was
dark except for the firelight. The bunches of holly
over the oil paintings of “The First Babe,” and “The
Rendezvous,” of the cats and kittens with pink satin
bows, and of the Italian peasants who seemed to
spend all their time at fountains, melted into the
gloomy background of the parlor paper, dark grey-green
with shadowy vegetation and tendrils and
swirls of gold. It was the time that they always
lit the wax candles on the Christmas tree, and yet
here was Mamma lying back in her chair with Brownie
in her lap, just as if it were any ordinary day and
she had nothing in the world to do but listen to Mr.
Lacey complain because ladies were getting so
mannish.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Neckties, wristbands, shirt-collars and shirt-fronts—upon
my word, my sister Em had on a waistcoat
this morning I thought was my own, except that it
was satin. You may call me old-fashioned——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, no, <span class='it'>indeed</span>, Mr. Lacey!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But I must say I like Lovely Woman to be womanly!
All this agitation for Women’s Rights——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dreadful!” breathed Mamma.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“To my way of thinking,” said Mr. Lacey, gazing
earnestly and admiringly at Mamma, “Woman’s
Right is the right to reign supreme in the heart and
home of mere man——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Oh, why didn’t he go home, so that they could
light the candles? Victor could hardly stand it. He
tried to comfort himself by ringing the little silver bell,
but he couldn’t hear it through Mr. Lacey’s voice.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t2891'>X</h1>

<p class='pindent'>It was so hot that to breathe was like putting your
head under a towel and over the tea-kettle. The
air quivered, the hens lay in the shade, now and then
uttering a languid “kraw-aw-k,” or following with
sleepy eyes the flight of a butterfly it was too much
trouble to make a try for. Mamma went upstairs
after lunch, and got out of her corsets and into a
muslin dressing-sacque, but then instead of lying
down she took up Mr. Lacey’s note and re-read it,
pleased, confused, embarrassed, pushed it out of
sight behind the box that held her evening hair, and
then bent to read a sentence just <span class='it'>once</span> again, with
reluctant pleasure.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was coming to tea this evening. He had come
to tea ever so many evenings, but this evening would
be different, for his heart, the note said, would no
longer allow him to keep silence.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And what did her heart tell her to say to him?
She ought to pray about it, but other things got mixed
up with her prayers and confused her. But certainly
she should have Divine guidance. She reached over
for the Bible by her bed, shut her eyes, opened at
random and brought down a finger:</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='pindent'>“And Gilead, and the border of the Geshurites and
Maachathites, and all mount Hermon, and all Beshan unto
Salcah.”</p>

</div>

<p class='pindent'>God moves in a mysterious way. Perhaps this
meant that she should take the best bit of advice out
of three tries. She shut her eyes again, her finger fell:</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='pindent'>“The salutation of <span class='it'>me</span> Paul with mine own hand.”</p>

</div>

<p class='pindent'>But what had Paul to do with Alfred?</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s the third time that counts,” said Mamma to
herself, but her lifted finger paused. Suppose God
should take it seriously this time, and advise against
her union with Mr. Lacey? Better not run the risk.
She put down the Bible.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Lacey! Mr. Lacey!</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was so thrilling! She was all soft pleasurable
tremors. She smiled at herself in the mirror, her
face like a full-blown pink rose. But the mirror
was old and put a wash of faint green over the rose,
that was not becoming. Oh, dear, she did wish she
had the kind of toilet-table she had read about in
novels, with a maid to change the lace and bows and
flowers for each toilet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>What does Madame wish to wear to the Duchess’s
dinner this evening?</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>My violet satin, Marie, and my pearls.</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And when she came up to dress the toilet-table
would look as if a flock of pale purple butterflies had
floated in at the open window and lighted among the
foamy laces, and the candle-light would fall on Parma
violets——</p>

<p class='pindent'>Not much like this clumsy, dark old thing, with
the wad of paper tucked in at the side to keep the
mirror tilted at the proper angle. Perhaps—if—Mr.
Lacey said his happiness would be to make her happy.
And beauty made her so happy!</p>

<p class='pindent'>And what should she wear tonight? She really
hadn’t anything fit to be seen. She opened her closet
door and looked discontentedly at bustled dresses,
dark sacques, a row of hats that looked like a poulterer’s
window, and green and tobacco-brown parasols
with rings in their noses, for carrying upside down.
One dress of golden brown velvet and grey satin, with
black lace and ruches and passementerie, she could
never look at without a surge of self pity. It had been
expensive—sombre browns and greys, colors resembling
faded flowers and withered leaves, were the extreme
of fashion and dear accordingly, and, of course,
it was the truest economy to buy really handsome
materials. Even though she had made it herself on
the wonder of the neighborhood, her new Grover and
Baker sewing machine, the cost of the velvet and satin
and lace had given her a dizzy moment when she
succeeded in adding up the sum to something approaching
the right amount. But things were so high
now, and it was so becoming, and anyway, she really
and truly had needed it, for she had made her old
dresses over and tried to freshen them with frills and
bows until she was ashamed to be seen in them. And
then Maggie had spoiled all her pleasure in it by
saying she thought it was awful to spend so much
on a dress while there were poor people who hadn’t
enough to eat. Mamma had cried dreadfully, for
nobody hated more than she to think that there was
anyone in the world hungry or unhappy or poor—it
made her feel perfectly wretched when she let herself
remember it. And she always tried to be kind
to the poor, and drove around at Christmas with baskets,
and took nice flannel to all the new black babies,
no matter how faint the stuffy, smelly cabins made
her feel. Mr. Lacey called her an “angel of mercy.”
Besides, Maggie didn’t understand at all; she never
wanted anything but hideous sensible short dresses and
mudproof galoshes of India rubber.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Lacey thought ladies were made for adorning—it
would be so sweet to have sympathy!</p>

<p class='pindent'>Sympathy, servants, admiration, gowns—and he
would do so much for Victor and the girls. Her
thoughts drifted here and there like butterflies, floating
with the sure instinct of those practical insects to
sweetness after sweetness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He would do so much for Victor—that mattered
more than anything. Her eyes grew moist with the
tears of tenderness that came so easily. Darling,
darling little boy! But he did need a father’s guidance,
a man’s strong hand. He had been hard to
manage lately, making such a fuss over taking his
boiled onions and molasses when he had a sore throat,
stealing the strawberries he had been told not to touch,
and amusing himself by drawing secular subjects on
Sunday. Only this morning he had run away, gone
fishing with Jake, old Chloe’s great-grandson, when
he knew he wasn’t allowed to go on the river without
a grown-up. Mamma saw them toiling up the lane
from the river, so small, so hot, and hardened her heart
to scold him. But when he burst on her, wet, scarlet,
dirty, with his face radiant with love, crying,
“Mamma! Mamma! I caught a fish for your lunch!”
what could she do but kiss him, and later eat the
horrid thing—it was a catfish, and nothing but love
would have made her touch it—with tiny bites
cloaked with loud cries of rapture.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The memory of her lunch made her feel quite hungry,
and she thought with pleasure of the creamed
sweetbreads they were going to have for tea—had
she given Martha the sherry for them? Potato salad,
cubes of ivory, crisp little white leaves from the heart
of the lettuce, and the mayonnaise she made herself
so patiently, so beautifully. “It takes a lady to
make mayonnaise”—that was one of her maxims.
She loved to make it, hypnotized by the drop, drop of
the oil, the steady beating of the fork, the smooth
rich thickening. Then beaten biscuit—the house had
echoed to the thud of their making yesterday. Big
red velvet raspberries and dark moist chunks of fruit-cake,
and coffee with Buttercup’s cream that rolled
from the cream-pitcher in a slow, thick, yellow fold.
The thought of the good things they were going to
have made water come into her mouth; then she remembered
who was coming to tea, and why, and decided
she wouldn’t be able to eat a mouthful.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It would be a pleasure to plan delicious meals, with
Mr. Lacey to appreciate them. A gentleman made
all the difference. And, of course, she always asked
God, the Night-Watchman, to keep them all safe until
morning, but He had so many households to guard,
and, when she thought she heard a burglar, it would
be reassuring to have a husband. “There’s nothing
like a gentleman in the house to keep one from moping,”
thought Mamma.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A series of little pictures of Mr. Lacey floated before
her. Mr. Lacey about to sing, pulling himself
up like a rooster about to crow (though that was not
the way she thought of it).</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Oh, wert thou in the cauld blast</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On yonder lea, on yonder lea——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>(But you couldn’t imagine Mr. Lacey in a cold blast.
You couldn’t imagine those silky whiskers rumpled,
those decorous coat-tails blown out.)</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Lacey bringing her gloxinias for the conservatory,
large bells of white and violet-blue.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Lacey in his tam-o’-shanter on a botanizing
stroll, telling them all the wildflower names.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Lacey reading Tennyson and Longfellow aloud
to her—so much prettier than that Keats that Papa
had been so fond of, and you never felt nervous about
what might be coming next.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Lacey in his blue flannels and his straw sailor
hat with a blue ribbon taking them on the river in
his sailboat so prettily named “Swallow.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Lacey—no, the pictures grew too intimate.
Mamma, diffused with a warmth not of the day, put
her hands over her eyes. Soft waves surged over her
body, and the heart in her breast swelled until it held
the earth, the sky, the sun and moon and stars. She
forgot toilet-tables and how much a man might help
a little boy; she forgot cooking sherry and the proprieties.
She was no longer thirty-nine, fat, the mother
of four children, nor was Mr. Lacey a dapper little
gentleman with a sunny temper and an assured income.
They were the hidden heart of the world, the
pulse of life, the creators, through which life flows
in its endless circle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Bowls of roses on little tables of papier maché inlaid
with mother of pearl, perfumed the darkened parlor
in honor of Mr. Lacey. Other roses, artificial,
adorned the ornament like the skirt of a lady’s ballgown
that filled the empty fireplace, looking as if the
lady’s head were stuck up the chimney, looking for
swallows, perhaps, or stars. Under the bronze Arabs
and camels standing beneath palm trees from which
wax candles rose, the chilly marble mantelpiece had
been put into a red flannel petticoat embroidered in
yellow chain-stitch; and the chairs were dressed decently
in tatted tidies. Everything in the room was
well covered except the Venus de Milo in the darkest
corner, that had been a Christmas present from the
Blows. Was the statue <span class='it'>quite</span> nice, Mamma wondered?
But it would have been so embarrassing explaining
to Sam and Lizzie, if she had hidden it, and
she remembered that Papa had said there were ever so
much worse ones abroad.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The parlor windows had new terra-cotta curtains,
and lace ones as well. The old crimson curtains had
been hung upstairs in the school-room. Their folds
concealed Victor curled up in a corner of the window
seat, sleepy from his morning of fishing on the glaring
river. Neither May or Lily knew he was there.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily ought to have been practicing “Convent Bells
at Twilight” on the piano with its fan of puckered
green silk in the front, and the swinging candle-holders.
But it was so hot, and four flats were so hard.
Besides, she wanted to talk to May, who was cutting
out a picture of a statue of Psyche to paste on green
“velvet” cardboard. Lily watched the quick flashing
of the sharp scissors. If she had been doing it she
would have torn the delicate winged figure, or pasted
it on crooked, or messed the glue. She did things
clumsily, as if her finger-tips were numb, not like
May’s that seemed as sensitive as the finger-tips of a
blind person.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“May!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mm,” said May, abstracted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“May, do you think Mamma is going to—that
Mamma and Mr. Lacey are going to—you know!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Lily! Don’t!” May blushed brightly, delicately,
and began to laugh; and Lily, blushing and
laughing too, swung this way, that way on the fringed
plush mushroom of the piano stool.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Wouldn’t it seem—I don’t know—<span class='it'>funny</span>, if they
got married? I sort of think maybe they will, though,
don’t you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The sisters looked at each other, shaking with nervous
laughter. They were curious, uneasy, and mildly
unhappy. But Lily would have quite loved kind Mr.
Lacey, if only the others had, and May had a sudden
flashing vision of gloves from Paris, a trip to Italy.</p>

<p class='pindent'><span class='it'>“Who is that beautiful girl with the wistful eyes,
looking out to sea?”</span></p>

<p class='pindent'><span class='it'>“That is May Campion, the step-daughter of the
rich Mr. Lacey. He showers every luxury upon her,
they say.”</span></p>

<p class='pindent'><span class='it'>“And yet that lovely face is the saddest I ever saw
in my life.”</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>“May—do you think Mr. Lacey ever—ever kisses
Mamma?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lily, how can you? You’re perfectly awful!
Stop, for mercy’s sake!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But they couldn’t stop laughing. Lily’s head went
down with a clash on the piano keys, and her hair
curtained her burning cheeks, while May’s hands shook
so she had to put down the little picture—Psyche, the
butterfly-winged, Psyche, the soul. But it was not
only laughter that made her hands shake. Thinking
about kissing did, too. She thought so much about
being kissed. She longed passionately to be kissed,
and would have died rather than admit it, for Mamma
had brought her daughters up with great propriety.
The prince of her secret dreams, in pink tights with a
white ostrich tip in his toque, had long since given
way to a dark handsome cruel Roman emperor, in
snowy toga and imperial purple mantle, with his brows
drawn together over his dark eyes. And she was a
Christian virgin, exquisite, slender, white as a stalk of
fire-white lilies. He tortured her and she adored him,
he pressed his beautiful scornful mouth to hers, and
she melted away with delight. At night she would
lie thrilling, trembling, burying her face in the pillow
so that the little moans of ecstasy she could not keep
back, should not waken Lily, sleeping so quietly beside
her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Now that she was growing up she sometimes “tried
on” different young men in her imagination, in the
place of her emperor. And although she looked on
her love life as the reality, Mamma’s as the dream,
she tried to imagine Mr. Lacey kissing Mamma—oh—<span class='it'>horrid!</span>
So prim and pecky! Or else soft and playful,
which would be worse. A kiss wouldn’t be a kiss
unless it hurt you, made you want to swoon, to die!
But Mr. Lacey kissing Mamma would be as passionate
as Mamma’s canary pecking at a cherry hung between
the bars of his cage. The idea was so silly—so—oh!
It made her feel hysterical. She said, to stop her
thoughts:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lily! Be an angel and make some lemonade.
I’m dead with this heat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily pretended for a moment that she couldn’t stop
laughing; but seeing that May was all through, she
answered amiably:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I will if you’ll come with me and ask Martha for
the lemons. She’s cross as two sticks having company
to tea on such a hot day.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They went off together, just in time, for Victor
could no longer hold in his sobs, and they burst loudly
on the empty school-room. Mamma was going to
marry Mr. Lacey! The idea had never entered his
head, and the shock was terrific. Between the forces
of life that like a wave lifted Mamma and Mr. Lacey
before toppling over and submerging such little in-the-way
creatures as himself, and the power of the midsummer
sun, that had poured itself all morning on his
bare head, he was unbearably shaken. Sobbing, he
leaned from the window and was sick into the fernbed
far below.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Out in the steaming heat of the “truck patch” Maggie
was picking raspberries. It was so hot. The
grape leaves, green on one side, pale grey suéde on the
other, that she had just picked to line the raspberry
baskets, were already limp. There was a singing
sound in her ears, and now and then blackness and a
bursting of blood-red stars floated before her eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She knew from the way Mamma was acting that she
was going to marry Mr. Lacey. She had been so shy
and smiling, looking like a happy little girl. She had
even tried to tell Maggie something, after Mr. Lacey’s
coachman brought over a note this morning, but Maggie,
fiercely loyal to Papa, had been forbiddingly silent
and sullen.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That little lady-killer to take Papa’s place!” she
thought bitterly, desperately. And, yet even to her
who loved him so, Papa had grown far away and dim—a
dear dream that faded even as she tried to remember.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The moist heat rolled over her like waves. Two
cabbage butterflies, one pure white, one faintly veined
with green, a Mr. Lacey and a Mrs. Campion of the
insect world, quivered over the raspberry bushes, and
a dust-colored toad gave a languid hop as she nearly
stepped on him, but no other creatures were in sight
anywhere; humans were in their darkened houses,
birds in their shadowy green ones. Pushing the hair
up from her wet forehead with the back of her wrist,
Maggie went on picking raspberries for Mr. Lacey’s
tea.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t3292'>XI</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Mamma planned to be surprised in the garden,
but as the time for Mr. Lacey’s arrival drew
near, she grew shy and stayed with the girls on the
porch. She wouldn’t let them out of her sight. She
felt dreadfully nervous.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She was wearing her white flounced, bustled dress
with the little black bows all over it, and her black
fringed sash. Black ribbons were tied around her
wrists, and an onyx cross on a black velvet ribbon
tobogganed on her bosom. She had tucked a crimson
rose in her great bird’s nest of braids—would <span class='it'>he</span> think
that was flighty? But just as she began to take it out,
his carriage wheels were heard on the drive, and she
had only time to fling one arm about Victor, one about
Lily, who were showing signs of running away, before
Martha brought him out on the porch.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A new Mr. Lacey, surely! This Mr. Lacey is too
spotless, too creaseless, too twinklingly tidy, ever to
have been used before. He has never run, ridden on
smoky trains, gone to bed, burnt his mouth, fallen down,
or shed tears. He has just been created, he and his
silver-grey suit, his shoes as polished as black glass, his
linen so white that it makes you blink, the cluster of
dark geranium in his buttonhole. Or else he has just
been done over from tip to toe, with a new wig and
whiskers of glossy nut-brown silk, and a fresh coat of
pink paint for his face, and of sky-blue paint for his
eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>No, his eyes are not sky-blue paint, but the real
sky itself, and those are real stars shining in them.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>“My prediction is that in a hundred years we will
all be going about in balloons,” said Mr. Lacey.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, dear!” said Mamma. “Nothing would in<span class='it'>duce</span>
me!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>That was the end of that. What could they talk
about now?</p>

<p class='pindent'>Literature! That was always a nice topic. But
one had to be careful with young ladies present.
Hawthorne was all right if one stuck to “The Marble
Faun,” but there was always “The Scarlet Letter”
lurking in the background. He tried George Eliot,
who had just written a novel called “Middlemarch.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ve read ‘Mill on the Floss,’ ” said May.
Mamma didn’t know about Mr. Lewes, but the girls
did, and that got them through the dull parts.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Quite an authoress, quite an authoress!” Mr. Lacey
decided kindly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I hardly like to let the girls read her,” said
Mamma. “It sounds so <span class='it'>fast</span>—a lady calling herself
George! Pass the biscuits, please, Martha.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The conversation fainted again, and again Mr.
Lacey leapt forward with restoratives. President
Grant and Mr. Home, the Spiritualist, helped him out;
and, at the mention of Dr. Livingstone and Mr.
Stanley, the Congo rolled through their minds, with
variations, for none of them had very clear ideas about
it. But Mr. Lacey had to do the work, for Mamma
was nervous and the children silent.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He tried lighter topics, and described the ladies of
fashion he had seen at Saratoga last month, with hair
dressed so high, with the bonnets perched on top such
explosions of feathers and flowers, that it seemed as
if the gentlemen escorting them should have walked
on stilts. “The <span class='it'>height</span> of fashion!” cried Mr. Lacey,
expecting laughter. For once his lady failed him,
murmuring, “<span class='it'>Do</span> have some more salad,” but he didn’t
mind. Above all things he admired sensibility in
Lovely Woman.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Eat your nice sweetbread, darling,” Mamma urged
Victor tenderly, smiling at him. She wanted, oh, she
wanted to show them all how much she loved them.
The warmth and fragrance of her love poured out
over her little boy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor caught a big fish this morning, for our
lunch.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Caught a big fish, did he? <span class='it'>This</span> big, eh?” Mr.
Lacey measured off improbable lengths of air. “What,
not that big, young Sir Piscator? Well, I suppose the
bigger fish got away—I thought so, I thought so!
You’re a true fisherman!” He slapped his napkined
knee, and his laughter pealed out. Even Mamma had
to laugh a little in spite of Victor’s gloomy face. Mr.
Lacey was so droll.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Panic-stricken, she would have stayed with the children
all evening. But Mr. Lacey was firm. He
wanted to be shown the roses. With Brownie at their
heels, they strolled across the grass, and the hemlock
hedge that separated the lawn from the garden hid
them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girls didn’t want to be waiting there on the
river porch when Mamma and Mr. Lacey came up
from the garden. They took their round straw mats
and sat on the grass under the trees in front of the
house. The western sky was a sheet of pure gold, and
against it the weeping willow by the servants’ cabins
across the road was a dark fountain—a fountain
springing and falling, springing and falling forever.
Somebody from one of the cabins began to play the
banjo, languidly, for it was still so hot. The notes
spattered out, seemed drops from that fountain pouring
up against the golden sky that faded as they
watched it, and then grew dark. The music stopped,
everything was quiet but the insects that sounded as
if they were mechanical insects being wound up for
tomorrow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was a crunch of steps on the drive—of course,
Mamma and Mr. Lacey thought the girls would be on
the porch, they were all hiding from each other—and
the gentleman’s voice said cheerfully:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wonder how it will feel to be Paterfamilias to
three lively young ladies and a young hopeful!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily’s nervous giggle escaped before she could cram
her hands against her mouth, and the voice sank to a
murmur, the steps withdrew. Presently they heard
his carriage roll away; and Mamma was standing in
the lighted doorway calling: “Children! I want
you!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>No need to tell them what had happened, her face
was so beautiful and radiant. She was like a great
white water-lily that opens softly to show a golden
heart, a great white cloud, gold in the sun. Floating,
floating, far away from earth. Even the hard knot of
pain in Maggie’s breast melted as she hugged Mamma.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where’s my Victor?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I put him to bed, Mamma. He wasn’t feeling
very well.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Poor little man! I’ll see if he’s asleep.
Girls——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, Mamma.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Darlings, I <span class='it'>do</span> love you so much!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor was awake, a huddle of misery. His head
was wet, he was sure he was going to be sick again.
Half waking, half sleeping dreams filled the room.
Mr. Lacey’s body in its silver-grey suit—but the head
was the head of the catfish he caught for Mamma—the
dark grey of wet slate, with long fleshy feelers
like drooping mustaches—a face as terrifying, as evil,
as the Chinese devils in the Foreign Mission book
at Mr. Page’s. And from the face came the purring
sound that had come from the catfish lying in the
bottom of the boat—the frightening purring that had
gone on until Jake hit it over the head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Now the catfish face was laughing at him, the silver-grey
sides of Mr. Lacey’s suit were shaking. And
over the bed, past the windows, head-down from the
ceiling, floated Mamma and the girls, laughing at
him, too——</p>

<p class='pindent'>They melted away, he could see his clothes over a
chair, the faint glimmer of the looking-glass in the
light from the hall. It glimmered like water—water
gently rocking the boat in which he sat fishing. Suddenly
the red bob in the circle of bright water
wobbled and went under—a bite! And there, jerking
and leaping at the end of his line, was a tiny Mr.
Lacey, grey suit, brown sidewhiskers, geranium buttonhole,
streaming wet and jerking on the hook as if he
were dancing the Highland fling. Funny little Mr.
Lacey! But, lying kicking in the bottom of the boat,
he began to grow, to swell, blotting out the river,
blotting out the sky; and screaming with laughter he
began rocking the boat from side to side—further—further—until
the water came pouring in——</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor wrenched himself back into full consciousness,
calling “<span class='it'>Mamma!</span>” But no use to call for
Mamma—she was in the garden with Mr. Lacey, and
Lily and May said she was going to get married and
be with him always. The waking dreams crept back,
knitted together with the heat, the sound of the night
insects, the sheet all screwed up into humps and ridges,
his stomach that felt so sick no matter how hard he
hugged his knees against it, his hot head that swelled
up and floated off like a balloon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then Mamma really came. She put down her
candle, and the moths began to fly around it crazily.
Her shadow and Victor’s streamed up the side of the
wall, tremulous and huge. She knelt by the bed and
put her arms around his body that stiffened under her
touch.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, you naughty boy, you ought to be sound
asleep!” But she was glad he wasn’t, really. Bright
tears went slipping down over the brightness of her
smile.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor, dearest little boy, I have some news for
you, something that’s going to make Mamma and all
of us so happy. Look, Mamma’s crying, but it’s only
because she’s so happy—isn’t that silly? You’re going
to have a new Papa—won’t that be lovely, darling?
A dear new Papa to love us all and take care of
us—Mr. Lacey——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor was as rigid as iron. His face, his large ears,
his thin little neck turned scarlet. His whole body
was scarlet under his nightshirt. And suddenly like
a cork flying out of a bottle a loud “<span class='it'>No!</span>” burst from
him, and another and another. She couldn’t soothe
him, she couldn’t stop him. Scarlet, furious, he went
on crying “No! No! No! No!” as if his cries were torn
out of him by terror and despair.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hush, darling, hush! He wants to take us all
across the ocean in a great big ship, as big as this
<span class='it'>house</span>—won’t that be fun? Perhaps we’ll see a whale!
Think of that! And Mamma will love Victor a thousand
<span class='it'>thousand</span> times as much as ever——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She tightened her arms about him, she tried to draw
his head down on her breast, rocking back and forth
with broken murmurs of “sh-sh, sh-sh.” But nothing
would stop those tearing cries.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And at last she promised. He was safe. He lay
in the big chair by the window, exhausted, giving now
and then a long shuddering sob—but safe, safe!
Mamma had promised.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She washed his hot face with cool water and cologne,
she took off his hot, rumpled nightie and put on a fresh
one. Sitting there while she made his bed with fresh
cool sheets he heard a cock crow far away, and saw a
faint streak of light along the river.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In bed again—so cool, so still—no sound but a
June-bug bumbling against the ceiling. Funny old
June-bug! He tried to lift a hand to make sure that
Mamma was still there, but his arms, his legs, all his
body had turned into yards and yards of silk the color
of the river in the moonlight, flowing in such soft folds
and billows in his cool fresh bed. He felt something
wet fall on his face, and just managed a faint
“Mamma!” before the cool silver depths closed over
him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Next morning Mamma was all washed white, like a
flower that has been rained on and rained on and
rained on. Only her poor eyes and nose were pink, as
if her pretty pink cheeks had run in the wash and
streaked and stained all the wrong places. All morning
she sat at Papa’s desk between the dining-room
windows, writing and tearing up, writing and tearing
up, and at last Albert was sent off with a note, and
with Brownie, but not the gloxinias, which hadn’t
done very well. Mamma put Mr. Lacey’s letter and
one velvety dark gloxinia bell into her Bible, and for a
long time she cried whenever she looked at them. She
never saw Mr. Lacey again.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t3579'>XII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Hessie Farley was going to be Airy
Fairy Lilian in half a minute, and was in a
panic because she couldn’t find her blue scarf and
parasol anywhere. Mrs. Farley, who was helping
behind the scenes, asked, “Why didn’t you hold
on to them?” and tears of fury sprang to her
daughter’s eyes. While the ladies seethed, Mr. Bates
and Prentice Page stood ready to pull back the hitchy
curtains, and had a good look at the audience through
the sides. Flap, flap, flap went the fans, like flapping
wings all over the hall, but the birds were too heavy
to rise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was Maggie, just through being Mariana in the
Moated Grange in a draped crimson portière with
her back hair flowing, who saw a pale blue tail hanging
down from Aunt Priscilla, sitting on a box. The
parasol was under her, too. Airy Fairy Lilian took
up her position and put on her smile, the curtains
hitched back, and there was another of the Tennyson
Tableaux.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were to raise money to buy a new melodeon
for the Sunday school, and everyone was helping.
Aunt Priscilla was old Mother Hubbard—not that
that was Tennyson, but she always was Mother Hubbard,
whatever the tableaux were. She had her
costume—a chintz skirt with poppies on it, a red
sateen lace-up-the-front bodice, and Willie’s mother’s
straw poke-bonnet trimmed with tea-colored ribbons.
It did for Martha Washington, too, at fancy-dress
parties, or, if she left off the poke bonnet and floured
her hair, for Marie Antoinette. But she liked to be
Mother Hubbard because she had taught her terrier
Tiny to sit up and beg, and he could be Mother Hubbard’s
Dog. Every time anything was planned someone
said, “Now <span class='it'>this</span> time we really <span class='it'>can’t</span> have Mrs.
Willie Campion as Mother Hubbard, and somebody
just must tell her so, that’s all there is about it!” But
what were they to do when she said timidly and
eagerly, “Do you want Tiny and me to be Mother
Hubbard and her Dog? It wouldn’t be a bit of
trouble, if you do, because I have my costume.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Webster sang “Sweet and Low” with such
tremolo it seemed as if the staff and the stems of the
notes on her sheet of music must be scalloped instead
of straight; and Mr. Bates’ voice welling out in
“Break, break, break” made the ladies sigh and smile.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘But the tender grace of a day that is dead</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Will never come back to me.’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>Mamma, sitting in the audience between Victor and
Lily, thought of a summer night three years ago.
Where was he now? The tears welled into her flower-blue
eyes. But soon she had to laugh, for Carrie
Trotter was giving a recitation from “The Widow
Bedott Papers”—such a comical one about pumpkin
pie. Of course, that wasn’t Tennyson either, but then
it didn’t do to be too particular.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The curtain jerked back again—oh, what a charming
tableau! Fannie Leaf and Prentice Page were
“Come Into the Garden, Maud,” and they had rented
a rustic gate from a photographer in Wilmington, and
twined real climbing roses over it. Fannie knew how
pretty she looked under the roses, in her pink satin
and Roman pearls, and she felt so happy that she
couldn’t keep from laughing. She shook so that the
arch shook, too, and some of the petals came drifting
down and caught in her yellow curls.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The last tableau was the loveliest of all, “The Lady
of Shalott.” May was the Lady, lying all in white on
packing boxes covered with draperies. She had
Mamma’s white satin wedding slippers on her little
feet, and on her breast beneath her crossed hands lay
all the Ascension lilies from the garden, sacrificed by
Mamma for this great hour. Edward Post was Sir
Lancelot in a Tam o’ Shanter with a plume from his
Aunt Jo’s best hat; and Robert Leaf was the Dumb
Oarsman (for they had mixed in some of Lancelot and
Elaine) in Fannie’s tan cape, with the packing-box
draperies arranged to hide his boots and trousers.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘But Lancelot mused a little space;</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;He said, “She has a lovely face;</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;God in his mercy lend her grace,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Lady of Shalott,” ’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>read Mrs. Allen with great expression; and May was
so beautiful that Lily wept unrestrainedly, and
Edward Post looked down at her as if he really loved
her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But she couldn’t get him to sound as if he had when
she tried, ever so hard, afterward, while Mrs. Webster
and Mr. Bates finished things up with a duet of
“Tears, Idle Tears” and Maggie helped poor Aunt
Priscilla hunt for the slippers she had kicked off in a
moment of relaxation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What were you thinking about while our tableau
was going on?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“About a fly that was tickling my nose. What
were you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I shan’t tell you.” (A fly, indeed!)</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, come on!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’d just laugh.”</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>(“ ‘So sad, so fresh, the days that are no more’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>warbled Mrs. Webster, boomed Mr. Bates.)</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know I must have looked perfectly <span class='it'>crazy</span>——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know what you’re fishing for, young lady, and
it won’t hurt you to work a little for it,” thought
Edward, and added aloud cruelly:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who’s that pretty girl in pink?” He was a new
young man, and had just come to live with his Aunt
Jo and Uncle Henry Allen while he worked in
Wilmington.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Which one? <span class='it'>Oh!</span> Oh, you mean her? That’s
Fannie Leaf. Do you think she’s pretty? Goodness,
men are funny!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And she laughed, but she looked so much as if she
would rather cry that he decided she should have her
compliment at once.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, I think she’s pretty as a picture—I think she’s
the second prettiest girl here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who’s the prettiest?” asked May, reviving like a
wilted flower put into water, and trying to look as if
she couldn’t guess.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t you really know?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“May, you haven’t seen Aunt Priscilla’s slippers,
have you?” asked Maggie, coming up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My sister Maggie, Mr. Post.”</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘——deep as love,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;Deep as first love, and wild with all regret,’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>sang Mrs. Webster and Mr. Bates.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How do you do, Mr. Post. Have you, May? She
took them off because they were so tight——” She
moved away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mercy, I wish <span class='it'>these</span> slippers were too tight!
They’ve been falling off all evening!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s because you have such tiny feet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, now you’re making fun of me——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He took her out to the carriage. She was dreadfully
excited. Mamma tried to put a sensible wrap
about her gleaming shoulders, but she twitched it off
impatiently.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, <span class='it'>Mamma!</span> I don’t need that!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>(To put a stuffy old cape about moon-silver and
lilies! She lifted her face a little, to the stars.)</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s a chill in the night air, honey. Well,
goodnight, Mr.—er—goodnight! <span class='it'>What’s</span> the young
man’s name, May?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sh, Mamma! He’ll hear you. Post. He’s the
Henry Allens’ nephew.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I thought Stewy Grant was going to be Sir
Lancelot.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He fell out of a cherry tree this morning and
knocked out a front tooth, so he wouldn’t, and Mrs.
Allen got Mr. Post. He’s coming over for archery on
the lawn next Saturday afternoon.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Already she was walking down the aisle on his
arm—shimmer of satin, foam of lace, and an armful
of lilies. They left the church, they entered the
carriage. He and she, alone.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>You were carrying lilies when first I saw you—do
you remember?</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>I remember, my Lancelot!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>My pure, white lily—my wife!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And Mamma, as she answered, “That will be very
nice, pet,” was holding her first grandchild in her
arms.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll make some ice-cream to have when you
finish your archery.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Mamma, <span class='it'>no</span>!” May’s voice was anguished.
“Goodness, what would he <span class='it'>think</span>?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’d think it was very nice, if I know anything
about boys.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Mamma, he isn’t a <span class='it'>boy</span>! And he’d think we
were so <span class='it'>crazy</span> about having him come——!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But, honey, we could just act as if we were going
to have it for supper anyway.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, <span class='it'>no</span>——!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All right, we needn’t have it, I’m sure! I just
wanted to make things pleasant for your friends.”
Mamma was dignified, but tears were near.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“May, I think you’re horrid when Mamma plans a
treat for you,” Maggie said severely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I know, it’s lovely of Mamma, but he’d
think we <span class='it'>cared</span> whether he came or not!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And <span class='it'>you</span> don’t care! Oh, my, no! Oh, I guess
not!” jeered Victor.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“May’s got a beau,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Oh, oh, oh,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;May’s got a beau</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Oh, oh, oh!”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“Mamma! Make him <span class='it'>stop</span>! He thinks he’s so
funny!” May wailed, and burst into a storm of tears.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Old Major ambled along. It was late, so late that
the toll-gate was lifted for the night, and Lily was
fast asleep in the back of the carriage. Maggie was
driving. They didn’t like to keep Albert up now that
he had all the work to do.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Tears, idle tears, I know not what they mean,’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>Maggie sang to herself, silently, inside her head.
Then she thought of Aunt Priscilla and her pale blue
tail. May was still shaking with sobs—what had been
the matter with them all? Such a fuss about that
Mr. Post—but she was ashamed of herself for having
been so cross and bossy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The sky was swarming with stars—so many, so
bright, it made you feel—oh—funny, to look at them.
<span class='it'>Mm-m</span>, how sweet! Those were the mock-orange
bushes in Miss Perry’s yard. Queer how their fragrance
made you feel so happy and yet as if you wanted
to cry at the same time. Another smell, not so nice—the
tavern pig-pen. Pee-<span class='it'>yugh</span>!</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t3867'>XIII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>He came on Saturday afternoon long before anyone
expected him. Mamma was lying down, May
was tying a rose-colored velvet ribbon around her
curls, and Maggie, who had been helping Martha preserve
strawberries, was trying to get the stains off her
fingers with the grated lemon rinds left from the
lemon-icing cake Mamma had made that morning. It
was Lily, strolling around the corner from the kitchen
with her mouth full of buttered biscuit, who saw him
on his bicycle with the huge front wheel and the tiny
back one come wobbling up the drive between the
pine trees.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is this the Campions’ house?” he shouted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily, crimson with embarrassment, made muffled
sounds and would have run away, if Edward hadn’t
fallen off cheerfully into a bed of peonies.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My bicycle’s new, and I don’t know how to ride it
very well yet. I hope you’ll excuse my smashing your
flowers.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily swallowed her mouthful of biscuit with a gulp
that forced the tears into her eyes, and became vehement
through shyness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, my yes, we <span class='it'>hate</span> those peonies. Mamma’ll be
<span class='it'>glad</span> you fell off in them—oh, I didn’t mean <span class='it'>that</span>! I
mean she hates <span class='it'>these</span>, we <span class='it'>all</span> do, the pretty ones are
all down in the garden, the big white ones with the
pink bottoms——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Oh, what had <span class='it'>possessed</span> her? What would he <span class='it'>think</span>
of her? As soon as the others came down, she rushed
off and flung herself into a game of solitary croquet,
pretending to be deeply absorbed, and passing from
one agony of blushes to another.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They had set up a target on the lawn near the beech
tree. Edward and May shot against Maggie and
Victor, and Mamma sat in a rustic chair, watching
them, chaperoning the young people. The pleated
ruffles of her skirt flowed out on the grass beside her,
crisp fan after fan. In her spreading white, with her
cooing voice, she was like one of Victor’s pigeons. How
nice the girls looked, she thought, in their tight basques
and three-ruffled skirts, their bustles, and sashes,
their trains and long tight sleeves. Fashions had
never been so pretty. Nobody would have dreamed
that Maggie’s tobacco-brown dress had started life as
a crinoline skirt of Aunt Priscilla’s. But how sunburned
the child was! She must wear her hat more,
and rub cucumbers on her face at night.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie shot well when she got over trying to hide
her stained fingers. Edward had to work hard to
beat her. He looked at her with dawning interest as
she drew her bow. Her straight, strong body in its
tight brown sheath, like a young tree; her face, the
golden rose of peaches above the white of her stiff
little linen turn-back collar; her hair in a thick bang
over her dark eyebrows and clear light eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Over and over again May had to jerk him back to
her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh! Oh!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s the matter?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, a <span class='it'>bee</span>! Oh, make it go away!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But she was really calling:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Come back to me! Don’t be Maggie’s! Come
back to me!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>For she was nineteen, a whole year older than
Mamma had been when she was married, and she was
terrified sometimes for fear life had passed her by.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When they were tired of archery, they went up on
the porch and ate cherries. Albert had brought a big
basket of them, great shining black worlds, each bursting
with the sun, the rain, the earth; each holding
hidden in its seed a tree with roots and branches, with
snowdrifts of blossoms, and green leaves, and a universe
of crimson black worlds each hiding in its heart
another tree.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just throw your stones into the lily-of-the-valley
bed—we always do,” said Maggie. She and Edward
ate their cherries, ever so many of them. May put
hers on for ear-rings, and decorated Edward, too; and
Victor threw his into the air and caught them in his
mouth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mamma had slipped away, and presently there came
a tinkling, and she brought out a frosty pitcher of
raspberry shrub, and the fresh lemon-icing cake. She
and May tried to act as if it happened every afternoon,
but Victor, who was showing off by walking on
the porch railing, nearly fell over in his delight, and
shouted rapturously to the round blue figure knocking
the croquet balls about.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lil-lee!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What-ee?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Cake and raspberry shru-hub!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Conversation, that had been wandering happy and
silly and free, resumed its ball and chain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is a wonderful view of the river you have,
Mrs. Campion.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, we’re very fond of our view. Do you like
Delaware, Mr. Cobb?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mr. <span class='it'>Post</span>, Mamma!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, me! How silly of me! What do you suppose
made me call you Mr. Cobb? Of course, there was
Papa’s friend with the red hair who had the racehorses,
Carrot-Top Cobb they used to call him; but
you aren’t a bit like him, with your dark hair and
everything. Heigho! I haven’t thought of him for
years—let me fill your glass. Do you think that you’re
going to like Delaware?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, indeed, thank you, though I haven’t seen much
of it yet. Do you go to Wilmington often?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, not <span class='it'>very</span> often. Victor goes to school every
day on the steam-cars, to Rugby Academy, but, of
course, not in summer; and the girls have some very
pleasant friends in town, haven’t you, girls?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, Mamma.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But it’s a long drive, and we find plenty to do out
here. Oh, yes, you must, just a <span class='it'>little</span> piece! But we
always drive in once a week to market—Victor,
precious! I <span class='it'>wouldn’t</span> eat any more, darling; you’ll
spoil your supper! No, honey, Mamma said <span class='it'>no</span>—well,
just a teeny piece. We generally go Saturday,
but this week we went Wednesday, so we didn’t go
this morning.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Aunt Jo drove in.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How is your aunty, Mr. Cobb?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mr. <span class='it'>Post</span>, Mamma.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Presently he had to go, and they all went out on the
front porch to watch him climb up on his bicycle.
Victor and Maggie saw themselves skimming along on
it with the clouds foaming about their heads; Mamma
and May said the very notion made them feel faint;
and Lily, blushing, tried not to look at the crushed
peonies.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodbye,” Edward said to Maggie, smiling at her,
taking her hand in his.</p>

<p class='pindent'>What is happening? What is this feeling that
floods them both? Two drops of water touch, and
are one.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>It was the most wonderful summer. The Sun said,
“Lift up your hearts,” and the flowers answered, “We
lift them up unto the Lord.” The big creamy roses
had never been so fragrant, the river had never been
so blue, the nights had never held such swarms of stars.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They got out the Chinese lanterns, lopsided, green
and yellow and raspberry red, so crushed and dusty
in their box in the attic, such miracles of beauty alight
and afloat in the blue summer night. By their light,
they ate the watermelons they had sailed across the
river for, and popped the seeds at each other.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Edward came on Sunday evening to sing hymns
with the Campions. While Mamma played the accompaniments,
selecting one nice chord for the bass,
which she stuck to through thick and thin, he would
sing so loudly, so tunelessly, with such a sweet, serious
expression on his face that Maggie would melt with
love and laughter. Lily taught him to play chopsticks
on the piano, and his Aunt Jo complained to
Mamma that she was nearly driven crazy by his
practicing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fourth of July! Victor was up before the sun,
exploding his torpedoes on the bricks by the kitchen
shed. That last one, found in the sawdust when he
thought he had used them all! It sounded twice as
loud as any.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Every now and then he had to go into the house to
look at the rockets and Roman candles, lying there
wrapped in lovely pastel colors, waiting for darkness.
Then out again. The red and gold of the firecracker
packages were as exciting as clashing Chinese gongs,
and sometimes braided in with the bunches of red
firecrackers was a yellow one, or a green one. Bang!
Bang! And there was his toy pistol, and the round
brown cardboard boxes full of magenta caps. Bang!
Mamma lay in her darkened room with a handkerchief
wet with eau-de-cologne on her forehead, and
saw Victor with his right hand torn off—Victor
blinded.</p>

<p class='pindent'>May gathered red and white Sweet-William and
blue cornflowers for the dining-room table; and Albert
made a big freezer of raspberry water-ice for the evening,
when the Blows, and the Willie Campions, and
Mr. and Mrs. Allen and Edward Post were coming
for the fireworks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The light never lingered so long as on Fourth of
July; but at last it grew dark.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor! <span class='it'>Victor!</span> Oh, honey, be careful!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s only a Roman candle, Mamma!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I won’t let him blow himself up, Mrs. Campion.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, dear! Are you sure that it’s safe? Take
care of him, Edward!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>(<span class='it'>Take care of my darling, take care of my life and
my love!</span>)</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Roman candles burst softly into balls of ice-green,
rose and blue. Over by the hedge were white
flashes of teeth and rolling eyes, black faces melting
into the night, soft voices full of sad cadences, broken
by sudden yells of laughter, quickly hushed because
of the white folks further up on the lawn.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Rushing up, tearing the darkness, the rockets
ascended unto heaven, burst, spread into ferns of fire,
blossomed into golden stars and tears that floated,
melted, and were gone.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie? Where is Maggie?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here I am, Edward.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>That was all he needed. He must be sure she was
there, feeling everything with him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Edward persuaded them to go bathing in the river
at high tide. The girls used the boathouse as a dressing-room,
sitting on the edge of the wobbly gunning-skiff.
The boathouse was musty-smelling and dark,
but through the cracks between the boards you could
see the blue river dancing. There were old starch
boxes full of cartridge shells, and wooden decoy ducks,
some without their heads, that had belonged to Papa.
Lily was afraid of the wasps that built their nests in
the corners, but May was never afraid of them unless
she was with a young man.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Getting out of their tight dresses, their shoes and
stockings, stepping from circle after circle of petticoat,
calling “Don’t look!” to each other, as they took
off corset covers, drawers, corsets shaped like hourglasses,
chemises, and long ribbed shirts, getting into
their blue flannel bathing-suits with the white braid
on the sailor collars stained <span class='it'>café au lait</span> by the river,
they felt like butterflies, light, free as air, escaped
from their thick cocoons.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie could swim a little, and so could Victor,
though for Mamma he drowned each day they bathed.
Lily pretended to swim, but she was really hopping
along with one foot on the bottom. But May wanted
Edward to teach her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh! Oh! Edward! Oh, I’m going down! Oh,
don’t let me go down!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He disentangled her clinging arms.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now look here, May, do you want to learn, or don’t
you? <span class='it'>Kick!</span> Pull up! <span class='it'>Kick!</span> Pull up! Keep your
head down and imagine you’re a frog.”</p>

<p class='pindent'><span class='it'>A frog!</span> The little mermaid floats in the foam, the
Lady of Shalott drifts down the river, and all the
prince sees, all Sir Lancelot sees, is a frog!</p>

<p class='pindent'>So she gave up bathing in the dirty old river; and,
because she was unhappy, became disagreeable and
distant, until she began an affair with a new young
man named Ralph Wither, who taught her the names
of the stars.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They all went crabbing after supper on the tremulous
pier that ran out from Uncle Willie’s boathouse.
The blue crabs scrabbled and waved their claws
in the old peach-baskets, the river clucked coolly under
the pier, and May cried:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Ralph! Help me! Oh, I’ve got such a big old
one I’m frightened to death!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t see why you’re so scared of the crabs, May.
You never used to be,” said Lily, who always thought
that what people said and what they meant were the
same.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Edward and Maggie sat together, swinging their
feet over the water. A light warm wind flowed over
them, and up from the grey river into the grey sky
floated an enormous apricot-pink moon. Silently they
watched it, and then looked at each other, smiling
faintly.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t4201'>XIV</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Now that they could only afford to keep Albert outside
and Martha in the house, Mamma and the
girls had ever so much more to do. They even had to
let lame Joseph go. He had swept the porches and
limped around the table in his white house-jacket; as
Mamma said, he was awkward and slow, but he <span class='it'>did</span>.
But they really couldn’t afford him any more.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And Martha wasn’t what she used to be. Whenever
the weather was hot she groaned and held her
side and mumbled so Mamma couldn’t understand a
word.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What, Martha?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ah doan feel right good. Ah done got a misery.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where is it? Does your head ache?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, ma’am, taint ezzackly mah <span class='it'>haid</span>, but Ah doan
feel like puttin’ out much today.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“None of us do in this hot weather, but you don’t
hear Miss Maggie and me going on as if we were
dying.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mumble.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What, Martha?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But all you could hear was grumble, mumble,
grumble. You couldn’t be sure she was being impertinent,
but then you couldn’t be sure she wasn’t. She
had been so cross and disobliging this morning that
Mamma had punished her by making the piccalilli
herself, with Maggie’s help.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Oh, what a day! The flies crawled ticklingly over
their faces or buzzed despairingly from the saucer of
molasses Martha had put on the window-sill to catch
them—poor things, how they struggled. Mamma’s
face was crimson and wet as she bent over the hot
stove, wiping her forehead with the back of her wrist,
and her head buzzed like a thousand flies. Maggie
chopped cabbages and peppers until her hands were
shaking, carried left-overs out to the pig-bucket—<span class='it'>pugh!</span>—and
felt as if the whole house was a bubbling
pot of piccalilli, with herself boiling in the midst.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Later that afternoon, when the jars were all filled,
she and Edward lay in canvas chairs under the pear
tree. It was so hot, so still, a storm was coming. Pears
had fallen in the grass, some of the ripest had burst, and
wasps crawled over them. She was tired and languid,
not only from her morning over the stove. Even the
still air was heavy, pressing them down in their chairs,
pressing the pears down on the grass until the juice ran
out of their broken sides.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Look, Maggie,” said Edward, speaking slowly, like
someone half asleep. A butterfly, blue in the sunshine,
black in shadow, had drifted through the heat
and settled on a spot of squashed pear. She answered
him—or did she? She was heavy with love for him as
the yellow pears in the tree were heavy with sweetness.
When he took her in his arms, she was so weak she
could not have stood without him. His lips moved
slowly over her face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A blue-black curtain of clouds rolled over the sky,
the wind turned the river to lead, flattened the grass
in the fields, pelted down the pears. Up at the house
shutters were banging, people were running to the
windows, slamming them down before the storm
should break. The wind kindled Maggie’s cheeks,
strained back her thin, dark blue dress until she was a
flying victory. And now she was all alive again, and
light as a mounting flame, and Edward too was
flaming——</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Je-ru-sa-lem the go-ol-den,’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>boomed Mr. Bates, up and down—<span class='it'>much</span> too loud,
thought Miss Martin at the organ, it really drowned
out all the rest of the choir. Something tactful would
have to be said again—oh dear!</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘With milk and honey blest——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>The choir was marching out. Stewy Grant wondered
if he could possibly hold in his sneeze until they got
into the robing room—those wild asters and goldenrod
sprays on the altar!</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Beneath thy contem-pla-shuhun——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>That was where Mrs. Webster’s voice soared higher
than the steeple!</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Sink heart and voice opprest.’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>Then, muted by the closed door, “A-men,” and Stewy’s
sneeze. Mumble, mumble, mumble, and then another
“A-men.” Miss Martin set the organ pealing, and the
congregation could lift up its heads from the pew backs
and go out into the sunshine.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mamma was ashamed of herself—or at least she
knew she ought to be—but she hadn’t heard a word
of the sermon, for thinking of Edward and Maggie,
and they had wandered even into the prayers and the
benediction. She held quite a reception on the church
lawn.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, indeed, we’re very much pleased,” said she.
“Of course, it’s sad to lose a daughter; but as you say,
I’ll be gaining a——Good morning, Mrs. Farley,
isn’t it a lovely morning? Good morning, Hessie dear,
how sweet you look! I never saw such a girl—a new
dress every time I see you. Yes, indeed, we’re very
much pleased, he’s a very dear boy. Good morning,
Mr. Leaf. Yes, indeed. They’re walking home—yes,
we’re very fond of him. I don’t know what I’ll do
without her, but then—oh, not until next autumn <span class='it'>any</span>way.
Lily pet, run back and see if Mamma left her
fan in the pew—<span class='it'>oop!</span>—don’t fall over your feet,
honey. Good morning, Miss Martin! Thank you!
Yes, indeed——!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodness! You’d think nobody in the world had
ever got engaged before,” Miss Hessie Farley said
gloomily to Mrs. Farley as they walked away. “Such
a <span class='it'>fuss</span>——!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes, he’s <span class='it'>nice</span>, but can you i<span class='it'>mag</span>ine feeling
sentimental about him?” May asked her friends.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Poor Aunt Priscilla said it was exactly like Willie
and her all over again, and offered her grandmother’s
lace wedding-veil. But she couldn’t find it anywhere,
until—<span class='it'>pop!</span>—while she was screaming, “Work, for
the night is coming,” in Sunday school, she remembered
that she had put it over some plates of caramels
up in the attic to keep off the flies. She had made them
for a surprise for Willie, that’s why she’d hidden them
up there; and then, of course, she’d forgotten them.
She was so afraid she’d forget again that she kept
saying, “Caramels—caramels,” to herself all through
the psalms, all through the sermon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hear my prayer, O Lord: (caramels) and let my
crying come unto thee.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hide not thy (caramels) face from me in the time
of my trouble: incline thine ear unto me when I call;
(caramels, caramels, caramels).”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They had been there nearly a year, so they probably
wouldn’t be very good. Still, it wouldn’t hurt just to
try them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The mice had tried them, and tried the veil, too.
But May, who was clever with her needle, mended it
so that you wouldn’t have known.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor was pleased with the engagement because he
thought now he could ride Edward’s bicycle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Margaret drove over to announce the forthcoming
nuptials,” Cousin Lizzie said to Cousin Sam. “That
means a silver tea-set. Really, the woman’s ridiculous!
They haven’t a penny between them, and she was
clucking like old Speckle when she’s laid an egg!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mamma had tried to make Maggie and Edward
drive to the Blows with her, but they escaped to the
autumn garden. He was trying to learn the names
of the flowers because she loved them so.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Chrysanthemum, Edward.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Chrysanthemum. What’s this brown one?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Chrysanthemum, too. Zinnia.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Zinnia. Oh, Maggie, you beautiful girl!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her heart cried, “Oh, darling, darling, <span class='it'>darling</span>, say
it again!” But aloud she said scornfully:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You must enjoy hearing yourself talk!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And what’s this?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A zinnia, just the same as it was two minutes ago.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And they looked at each other laughing, shining
with inward light. They were always laughing—laughter
charged with excitement, laughter that left
them trembling.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s the joke, children?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Nothing, Mamma, really and <span class='it'>truly</span> there isn’t any
joke.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And there wasn’t, but Mamma could never believe
it, and her feelings were dreadfully hurt. But they
couldn’t stop. Sitting in church, going to supper at
the Blows, they didn’t dare look at each other, because
they were bursting to laugh.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He laughed at her, and she loved it, even when he
laughed at things she meant perfectly seriously. Because
he never laughed at the wrong things. He
understood so wonderfully that sometimes she thought
she was dying of happiness. When she told him, shy,
even with him, the things other people would have
waited for her to finish—the word, the broken sentence—the
tears came into her eyes as he answered, “I
know, my darling.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Even when they fought, when they were furious at
each other, they felt as if sparkles and flames were
running over them, leaping towards each other.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily couldn’t understand it at all. She thought
when people were engaged they exchanged locks of
hair and held each other’s hands. Two pale pink
hearts tied together with a pale blue ribbon. How
<span class='it'>could</span> Edward and Maggie talk to each other the way
they did?</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s tremendously stimulating,” Edward explained.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Edward makes me so <span class='it'>mad</span>!” added Maggie.
They smiled at each other, and again the invisible
lightning leapt.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You mustn’t be so selfish, children,” Mamma reproved
them. “You mustn’t grumble so when people
ask you out. It’s very kind of them.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So they went to evening parties; and Mamma,
beaming, handed Edward around like a plate of
delicious cake.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mrs. Holly, this is Mr. Post! Cousin Jennie, I
want you to know Edward——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And Maggie, in her flounced and frilled white ball
gown with a bodice like a black satin corset, was
saying:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Thank you—thank you ever so much. Yes, isn’t
he? We don’t know yet. Thank you, Cousin Jennie.
Yes, indeed, I am. Oh, not for ever so long.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie, hurry up! Stop talking and come!” And
his voice sounded quite desperate. Oh, together again!
“The Blue Danube”—how sad, how sweet! Was she
going to disgrace herself by crying at a party?</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Edward——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, darling, I know.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But sometimes, when he talked to Cousin Sam and
Uncle Willie about fishing and shooting, he looked so
interested, so absorbed, that she thought, “This is his
real life; this is what really interests him.” Sadness
and loneliness covered her, darkening the light. And
then to find that he had suffered as much as she all
those hours, those years, when they were not alone
together!</p>

<p class='pindent'>One Sunday in spring a late snow fell, light and
wet, so that everything was deep in swansdown. The
scillas were already in bloom, and she cleared the snow
from them to show him, while the flakes still sifted
from the grey sky, melting on their cheeks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He hardly looked at them, but why did the patch of
blue flowers in the white snow make her so happy?
And why did old Mrs. Latter suddenly pop into her
head—old Mrs. Latter, who had been dead for years?
She hadn’t thought of her since the day Mamma took
her there when she was a little bit of a girl—how long
ago? But now she saw the wrinkled, white cheeks
like crumpled tissue-paper, with their big spots of
moth-wing brown; smelled cologne——</p>

<p class='pindent'>What was it? She <span class='it'>must</span> remember—she mustn’t
lose it. It was something that mattered tremendously
to Edward and to her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And just as she gave up, came the feeling of soft
little hands on her heart, light as the touch of the
snow. And through all the years between she saw,
hanging on Mrs. Latter’s wall, the circle of scilla-blue,
the circle of Heaven, and the snow-white baby
holding his arms wide open—waiting for her, holding
out his hands to be taken.</p>

<p class='pindent'>One evening at the supper table Maggie said, too
casually, too airily:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Edward’s going out West.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>No!</span>” said Mamma. Lily stopped mopping up
the chicken gravy with her bread, and stared with
round blue eyes and round pink mouth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The company never sent such a young man before—and
it means quite a lot more salary.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then you can get married sooner,” May said,
smiling at her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes!” Oh, darling May! Maggie’s heart glowed
with gratitude.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Poor little girl,” said Mamma.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I want him to go! He asked me if he should, and
I told him to go.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t you <span class='it'>mind</span>?” asked Lily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>(“<span class='it'>I have been sentenced to death next week.</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Don’t you mind?</span>”)</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Would he like us to keep his bicycle for him?”
Victor suggested in a small respectful voice. “I’d
keep it oiled and everything, and I wouldn’t ride it
and I wouldn’t let Jake ride it either. You ask him,
Maggie.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Under the table Maggie squeezed her brother’s
hand. The <span class='it'>darling</span>!</p>

<p class='pindent'>But she didn’t realize that Edward was really
going, as day after day went by, until tomorrow was
the day.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Here he was, here, his coat, his cheek, his hair, here
to be touched and felt, his arms holding her close.
Now he is here! Tomorrow he will be gone. How
can it be possible that of their own volition they will
part, he will go, she will stay?</p>

<p class='pindent'>When she was in his arms, he felt as if he would
never dare let her go. Suppose he should lose her. A
bird lies in your hands, yours to keep for always. But
open your hands and the bird is lost in the sky, and, if
you wait forever, your hands will still be empty.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie—it won’t be so terribly long——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It won’t be—a bit——” She turned her head
away and bent down a branch of the snowball bush,
broke off a still green snowball, and slowly, carefully,
began to pull it apart and make little heaps of the
blossoms on the bench beside her, three in each heap.
A tear splashed down beside them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re crying!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not!” She turned to show him she wasn’t,
tears streaming over her face, her body shaken by
tearing sobs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mag-gie! Oh, Mag-gie!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>From the porch Victor’s voice calling her. Then
louder—then far away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mag-gie!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie, Maggie, promise you’ll always love me!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Oh, she could promise that! She could even laugh
as she promised.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie, where are you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here, Victor.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh!” The voice came to a standstill behind a
hedge, sympathetically distant. “Well, Mamma said
to tell you you must come in, she says to tell you it’s
getting very chilly and you have a cold.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All right, we’re coming.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Edward went down on the grass at her feet, clinging
to her, burying his face on her knees. Night was coming,
and lifting her lips from the dear head, the dark
head, she saw each star in the sky change to a cross
through her tears.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The family went to bed early, so that Maggie and
Edward could be alone for their last, aching goodbyes.
But Mamma couldn’t sleep. For the third time she
lit her candle, and looked at Papa’s big watch that
hung in the beaded pocket at the head of the bed. It
was dreadfully late. He ought to have gone home
ever so long ago.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I’m not going to worry about them,” she
told herself. But she lay rigid, almost afraid to
breathe, waiting for the sound of the front door closing
and Maggie climbing the creaking stairs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The house was coming alive—here a whisper, there
a patter, not of mice nor of rain. It was breathing,
you could hear it sigh.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps he’s gone home without my hearing,”
thought Mamma. “Anyway, I’m just going quietly
to sleep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So she got up and stole out into the hall and sat
down on the blanket box at the top of the stairs.
There wasn’t a sound, but the lamp in the downstairs
hall was still burning, and by leaning over she could
see his hat lying on the sofa. This was nonsense!
<span class='it'>Such</span> an hour! What were those crazy children thinking
of? She would just call over the stairs——</p>

<p class='pindent'>What made the whole house feel so strange, trembling
and alive? The banister seemed to quiver under
her hand. The ticking of the clock on the stairs
sounded like water falling, drop by drop—water that
could never be gathered up again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Cautiously, silently, she got up, avoided the squeaking
board, went back into her room, and closed the
door.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t4656'>XV</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Even Willie said the new cook was good. When
he finished his second cup of coffee and said, “I’ve
only had one cup, haven’t I?” Aunt Priscilla was so
pleased that she told a story, and said, “Yes, just one,”
as she poured out his third. Think of it! Three cups,
when usually he only tasted it and pushed it aside.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Isn’t your coffee all right, Willie?” she would ask
him anxiously, and he would answer:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Coffee, my dear? Oh—do you mean my cup of
warmish dish-water?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Three cups of coffee and two helps of fried chicken
and three <span class='it'>big</span> pieces of cornbread, and when he finished
breakfast he smiled and patted her cheek.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She felt so happy, like a good little girl who has
been praised. When he went out, she got down on her
knees in the dining-room, with her head on his chair,
while flies buzzed around her and the parrot screamed,
“Will-<span class='it'>lee</span>! Hello! Want a crack-<span class='it'>kah</span>? Hello! Oh
dear!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Our Father which art in Heaven, thank thee <span class='it'>ever</span>
so much for making Cobina a good cook and thank
thee for Willie. Amen.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She must do something nice for somebody, she felt
so happy. The peaches were ripe on her own peach
tree, the tree Willie had planted on her first birthday
after they were married. She loved her little peach
tree—its pink blooming in spring was one of the few
things that pierced through the mist that surrounded
her, and its peaches were much better than any other
peaches. Who should she take them to? Mrs. Holly
must be ill, she hadn’t been in church on Sunday.
And although the Hollys had dozens of peach trees,
Aunt Priscilla filled her basket, wobbling on a kitchen
chair. Beautiful miracles of pink and yellow velvet!
She could have kissed each one. She did kiss the little
tree, softly and shyly, and then looked around in a
panic to make sure Washington hadn’t seen her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She came home from the Hollys walking on air.
Over the brook—my <span class='it'>good</span>ness, what wobbly stepping
stones! Suppose she sat down in the water, wouldn’t
those water-spiders be surprised, and the small fish
slipping about like shadows? So cool, so clear, for
two pins she’d go in paddling. That bright, bright
moss at the side with the crystal runlets of water
trickling over it, reminded her of the green velvet dress
with the crystal beading that Willie had liked, ever
so long ago.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mushrooms! Growing in long white drifts on the
short green grass of the pasture. She began to fill her
basket, empty now except for its permanent contents
of a key that had long ago lost its door, with a bit of
dingy red ribbon tied to it; a paper screw of seeds
(seeds of what? She hadn’t the least idea); an elderly
list of blurred pencilling, headed “<span class='it'>Must do</span>”; and a
few twists of grubby string. Transient knitting,
Christmas cookies, eggs, mail, fruit, and flowers covered
them from time to time, but these old residents
remained unmoved.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Most of the mushrooms were too old, after all, black
and wormy. She got enough big brown-lined umbrellas
for a nice little dish, but she couldn’t find any of the
silky white ones with the pink linings like the basketful
Margaret and the girls brought her last week.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then, by the edge of the wood, she saw the most
beautiful one, all by itself, and further on, another.
More beautiful than any of Margaret’s, all silvery,
inside and out. She found five before she was through.
They gleamed against the shadows of the wood, beautiful,
lonely, and white—angels of death.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then she thought, why not stop and ask
Margaret to lunch? Because she loved mushrooms,
and here they were, and there was Cobina to cook
them.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>“Really, Priscilla, she’s a treasure!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Willie says so, too,” said Aunt Priscilla, beaming.
“No, the mushrooms are all for you—they cook down
so, don’t they? No, really, I never want anything
else when I have corn-fritters, and Cobina says she
wouldn’t be paid to eat them. Toads, she calls them—did
you ever? Short for toadstools, I guess. Now
take them all or I’ll feel bad, I gathered them especially
for you. Co-o-<span class='it'>bina</span>! Oh, Cobina, you might just let
us have a few more of the corn-fritters—do you think
she looks all right? She’s so black it’s sort of hard
to tell, isn’t it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She’s better than Lizzie’s wonderful fancy cook,”
said Mamma, mopping up the mushroom gravy on her
biscuit. “What’s the matter with Lizzie, anyway,
Priscilla? She’s acting very queer lately—just <span class='it'>half</span>
a cup—oh, you bad girl, I said half!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t tell, but Willie thinks she’s going crazy!”
Aunt Priscilla’s eyes looked like pale blue glass
marbles ready to pop out of her head. “He went over
last Tuesday—was it Tuesday? What day was it the
old peddler woman came? Anyway, he wanted Sam
to go down state after reedbirds with him, and he said
you could hear Lizzie screaming clear out on the road;
and, when he got up to the house, he heard Sam sort
of yell, ‘You’d better be careful, my lady, or I’ll lock
you up, that’s what I’ll do!’ It made Willie feel
so queer he never stopped at all—here, let me take
away your plate, and I’ll get some chocolate cake.” She
opened the lower doors of her husband’s desk, where
she kept the cake box, the vanilla bottle, and the
broken plates with the humming-birds and morning-glories
that she planned to mend some day.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Priscilla—excuse me—it comes so quickly, this
damp, warm weather—but I don’t believe we’d better
eat that, I’m afraid it’s molded just a <span class='it'>little</span>.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, so it has!” She looked at the beautiful cake,
so rich and black, but with spots of mold, furry grey
on the icing. “Do you think it would hurt? Well, I
suppose it’s better to be safe than sorry.” Sadly she put
the cake back in the box.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Jo Allen has marked four dozen tea napkins for
Maggie.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Has she?” She brightened up again, sprinkled
sugar thickly on a piece of bread and butter, and
settled to enjoyment. “You know I was thinking this
morning of a green velvet dress I had the year I was
married—I believe if it was steamed it would make
over into a right pretty sacque for Maggie. And
Willie and I want to give her her greatgrandmother’s
silver tea-spoons. Has Lizzie given her anything yet?”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Beautiful, lonely, and white, the Angel of Death.
Whiter than fire, whiter than snow, the great wings
curve above Mamma, their shadow covers her. The
flies buzz, the parrot says “Oh dear!” and scratches
its head, Aunt Priscilla scratches her head, too, and
takes a half moon bite of bread and sugar.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Mamma strolled home—the short-cut through the
cornfield. The river had never been so blue. Over
the stile and up through the garden—two or three
more days and the asters would be lovely—oh, such a
fine plant broken! That was Victor’s new puppy
Bundle, bad little thing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She stopped to gather a few nasturtiums, thinking,
“I believe I could get a whole dress for Maggie out
of Priscilla’s green velvet if I had it open over a satin
underskirt.” Poor Priscilla! Such a goose, but so
kind. She wouldn’t harm a fly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She paused to eat a peach, looking thoughtful and
thinking of nothing. Then across the lawn and into
the house. And with her went the Angel of Death.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Stop and look at your flowers, little child, and I
will wait for you. Eat your peach, there is no hurry.
No need to hurry now, we are nearly there.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The house was still, for the children had gone on a
picnic. She could hear her canaries hopping and
swinging in their cages. How cool and fresh the
darkened house was after Priscilla’s sunny dusty
rooms. That was a good cook, though. She had
enjoyed her lunch.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Should she go and tell Martha she was home?
Better not, perhaps, in case she wasn’t expected so
soon. It had been embarrassing all around, last week,
after Martha had said there wasn’t any cold duck
left, to come upon her feeding it to a strange young
darkie. She was forty if she was a day, too, the silly!
But Mamma certainly didn’t want to catch her at anything
she would have to disapprove of.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She went up to her room and took off her dress.
Just a little lie-down before supper.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The great wings drooped above her, closer, closer.
“Go to sleep, little child. I will be here when you
wake.”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Every night Maggie almost prayed that Edward
would come to her in her dreams. Praying was done
on your knees, in churches and by bedsides, beginning
properly, “Our Father” or “O Blessed Lord,” and
dealing in stately language with reformation or protection.
Almost praying was the quick warm gush of
gratitude or pleading: “Oh, <span class='it'>thank</span> you!”, when
Edward’s letter was extra long, or “Please <span class='it'>please</span> let
me dream of him,” every night as she fell asleep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But she dreamed of Mamma and the girls, of old
Benny Brown with his beard in a braid, of Lossie’s
black baby, of Victor’s new puppy—anybody, anything
but Edward.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>The long-nosed market-woman who always had the
nice cheese and the tight bunches of marigolds and red
bee-balm was sitting up in a pine tree on the drive.
Knock! Knock! Knock! Maggie could see the long
sharp nose sticking out from her sunbonnet as she
struck it against the tree trunk like a giant woodpecker.
Knock! Knock!</p>

<p class='pindent'>But she’d ruin the pine tree! Shoo!</p>

<p class='pindent'>Spreading her shawl, the market-woman flapped
through the air, and settled in another tree, far off.
Knock! Knock! Knock! It was fainter now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie rose from the sea of sleep and drifted,
nearly awake, on the surface. The knocking came
again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She sat up in bed, listening. How queer! It came
low down on her door, so low that she saw, still half-dreaming,
a dwarf in the dark hall, knocking.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was Mamma, huddled on the floor, leaning
against the door.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Maggie, I’m so sick——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, poor Mamma! Come, let me get you back
to bed.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My stomach aches so—and my legs——” She
lay in her bed, her knees drawn up, whimpering a little,
her blue beseeching eyes darkening with pain as pools
darken in a storm.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie waited in the kitchen for the water to heat.
The loud hurrying tick of the clock, the slow drip of
the water-tap, the dark high ceiling, high as the night,
that the faint light of her lamp could not reach, made
her feel weak with loneliness. She was frightened—something
was waiting in the dark behind her.
“Edward——!” she called across the miles.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then a chill of terror crinkled over her as she heard
Mamma scream.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Three days, three nights. That screaming, thin as
a knife, that shaking, that hurling back and forth in
the deep white bed. Nothing could counteract the
poison of that dish Aunt Priscilla had offered her
so lovingly. Dr. Chase couldn’t help her, no one could
help her, though every one came to ask, driving up
with baskets of grapes and autumn flowers, and saying,
“If there’s <span class='it'>anything</span> we can do——!” Martha
worked all day and most of the night, good as gold,
feeling sad and excited and bursting with importance.
On Sunday morning the congregation prayed for
Margaret, stealing glances full of that strange excitement
at the Campions’ empty pew.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“O Father of mercies and God of all comfort, our
only help in time of need; look down from heaven, we
humbly beseech thee, behold, visit, and relieve thy
sick servant——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The peaceful grey walls with their moss-rosebuds
and lace, the fresh, white curtains, the piled white
clouds in the soft sky, looked at Mamma tranquilly.
The stoppers of her perfume bottles threw splashes of
rainbows over her white bed. And all this still rose
and silver brightness, this sweet, accustomed peace,
held in its heart the black whirlpool in which she was
sinking.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Comfort came to her twice through her pain, not in
the thought of Papa, not in prayer. Once May
brought in a vase of fragrant, pink tea-roses blurred
with a silvery bloom of dew, with delicate sprays of
dusk red leaves, and Mamma’s tortured and bewildered
eyes saw them and loved them. And once she
whispered, “Maggie, if I—if anything should happen,
promise you’ll always take care of Victor.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I will, I will!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She smiled. For a moment she floated at peace,
before the dark tumult sucked her in again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She longed for Victor passionately, but she wouldn’t
let him come to her, for fear of frightening him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Can’t I see Mamma, Maggie?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not just yet, honey. Wait until she’s better.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Would she like Bundle?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not just yet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So he would go and hide in the wagon-shed, behind
the sea-blue farm cart, out of hearing of that thin
tortured screaming. And Bundle, all big paws and
soft, clumsy heaviness and sad, anxious eyes, was companion
and comforter and handkerchief.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie passed through and beyond ordinary exhaustion.
She saw everything, the tiniest things, the blue
and silver star of beads on Papa’s red cloth watch-pocket,
Aunt Priscilla’s small pear shaped tears that
never stopped, the tufts of cotton in Martha’s ears, the
tiny green-white spider on the black grapes Cousin
Sam brought, with a queer bright clearness. Everything
had become brilliant, intense, and strange, like
the reflections and colors in a soapbubble just before
it breaks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She sat by the window at the end of the third night,
watching the sky and the river turn the faint silver
of a moth’s wing. Just at dawn a light wind touched
her cheek, gentle and comforting. The sky kindled to
a sheet of living rose, and the river was a golden river
of life, flowing into her heart, flowing out from her
heart as she watched, sitting there quietly, not knowing
that Mamma was dead.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t5009'>XVI</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Edward was coming. Maggie had never been so
brisk and cross. How she ordered them about!
And she was everywhere—whipping cream for the
charlotte russe, shouting to Albert to bring in more
firewood, carrying pots of pinks and ivy from the conservatory
into the parlour.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Lily!</span> Don’t put that wet pot on the table—<span class='it'>mercy</span>!
Now look at that!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And she would fly for a cloth, with Bundle jumping
around her, tumbling over his paws, wanting to play.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Bundle, look-<span class='it'>kout</span>! Victor, for <span class='it'>pity’s-sake</span> put
your dog somewhere where he won’t be under foot
every second!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Maggie, please don’t be so cross and bossy!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then, giving the tumblers an extra polishing,
she struck one so that it chimed and rang, faint, faint,
a thread of exquisite sound, humming, like a bell deep
under the sea.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And she was lost, listening to it, not hearing it, gazing
with bright soft eyes through Mamma’s oil painting
of lady-fingers and strawberries and a tea-pot, through
the terra-cotta wall behind it, through the falling
snow, through the sky. And there seemed to be a
bloom on her, a radiance.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There were ferns of frost on the kitchen windows;
the pump, to keep it from freezing, was wearing
Mamma’s old red cloth opera cape with the cock
feather collar, its handle sticking out like a sword.
Nothing was quite its ordinary self, magic had touched
The Maples.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was almost time to start for the station when she
came in tears to May.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t go to meet Edward.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why not?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I look so hideous!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I have seen you look better,” said May candidly.
“What have you been doing to your hair?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I tried to crimp it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, never mind, I guess it’ll come out as you
drive up. Take my frill—that collar’s so stiff and
horrid, and you can have my muff too, only <span class='it'>please</span>
don’t get it all wet in the snow, and remember to hold
the good side out and the rubbed side against you.
Maggie—black makes you look so washed-out—I don’t
suppose you’d take a red ribbon—I just happen to have
some if you would—and wet it with cologne and rub
it on your cheeks?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>May!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I’ve heard of girls doing it,” said May,
blushing deeply.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Only bad women paint their faces,” Maggie told
her severely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>What if she had imagined everything? What if he
didn’t come? What if there wasn’t any Edward?
She was so afraid of that sometimes that it was agony,
when he wasn’t there and no one was speaking of him.
How to be sure, to be sure it was all real? And when
she felt that way she couldn’t say “Edward,” because
only suppose their faces had said, “Edward? Who’s
that? We don’t know anyone named Edward.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She would watch for Uncle Willie’s horse and
carriage, bringing the mail, bringing a letter from him.
From her window she could see the carriage far up the
road, looking so different, somehow, from the way it
looked when it was only going to church or market;
and she would pretend to herself she hadn’t seen it,
going on trying to do whatever she was doing, weak
in the knees—dizzy—until someone called from
downstairs:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Mag</span>-gie! <span class='it'>Let</span>-ter!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She never got used to his letters. She would cry
over them, kiss them—practical Maggie!—carry them
crackling under her chemise, wake up in the night to
feel them beneath her pillow, or light her candle to
make sure that he had really written what she hardly
dared believe she remembered. And no matter how
often she re-read them, the words were a shock of bliss,
a flame of ecstasy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s the news from the Far West?” Mamma
would ask. She and Lily nearly burst with curiosity
over each letter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why—I don’t think there is any, Mamma.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>No news in that fat letter! Well, really!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mamma doesn’t want you to tell her anything
you’d rather keep to yourself, Maggie,” she said, hurt,
and was more hurt when Maggie didn’t. But she never
gave up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How is Edward—or ain’t I allowed to ask that?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What? Oh—oh, yes, thank you, Mamma,”
Maggie answered vaguely, gently, looking at Mamma
with dazzled eyes that did not see her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But now it wasn’t a letter that was coming, it was
Edward. And how could she make herself feel it?
She was numb, she couldn’t even remember what he
looked like. And probably he had forgotten what she
looked like, too. How would they ever recognize each
other? They should have arranged something—“I
will carry a sealskin muff and you wear a red
carnation.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Edward will be here any minute now!” She tried
to wrench herself out of this numbness and feel the
passion, the bliss that his coming should bring her, but
she only felt as if she were going to be sick.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He couldn’t kiss her <span class='it'>really</span>, with everyone at the
station taking such an interest. And in the carriage
her hat got in the way, and besides they were both
thinking of Albert’s back and Albert’s ears.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She forced warmth and brightness into her voice,
winking to keep the tears back.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What kind of a trip did you have?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And he answered with the same false brightness:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, all right. You’re looking wonderful. How
are the others?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All right. Victor has long trousers now, just for
best. He can’t wait to show you! The girls took
their sewing to Fannie Leaf’s, but they’ll be back for
tea.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I thought May didn’t waste much love on pretty
Fannie?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, she goes over there a lot now—she and Robert
are having an affair.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s different! How about Ralph Wither?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s engaged to a Dover girl. Look, it’s snowing
harder than ever! I was afraid it might make your
train dreadfully late.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We were about ten minutes late, weren’t we?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“About that, I think.”</p>

<p class='pindent'><span class='it'>(Oh, where are you, where are you?)</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, here we are!” The pine branches swept
down, dark and sad through the falling snow, the fields
were white, and in the fountain in front of the house
each iron calla lily was heaped with snow. The two
strangers got out of the carriage and went into the
house.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This room is always cold in a storm—I am cold.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie, can’t we go up to the school-room?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And they were alone, really alone, in the room they
had always loved best. She lighted the logs in the
black marble fireplace and the room was fragrant with
burning pine-wood and the geraniums, too spindly for
downstairs, that looked out at the falling snow. There
were the shabby books, the wobbly table with “A Lily
Among Thorns,” propping up one leg, Mamma’s sewing-machine,
the dressmaking dummy with her wire
legs and tiny black pear-shaped head and high proud
bust, wearing a white flannel dressing sacque with
violet bows that May was making. The goldfish that
lived in the garden pool in summer, swam in a washtub,
in and out of their castle of stones, in and out
of the waving water plants, gleaming sides of red and
gold and silver, filmy floating tails. Miss Proctor’s
poems, decorated with tear blisters and gingerbread
crumbs, lay open on the window-seat, left by Lily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They kissed each other with love and tenderness,
clinging close, but the longed-for moment had gone—had
never been. Her hat, the men at the station, all
the cloud that surrounds us, had kept them apart. And
they had wanted it so that now they were too tired.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Remember, Maggie?” And as he began to play
chopsticks on the old piano, the shell of thin ice around
her heart melted so that she was warm and alive and
happy again, and able to make a terrific face at him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie—I have the most tremendous news!” He
beat her palms lightly together as he talked, stopping
now and then to kiss them. Happiness bubbled in
every word, and she had never seen his eyes shine so.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We can be married! We can be married right
away! The company’s sending me to South America
in a month—it’s a wonderful chance—it means everything,
absolutely everything! It’s too good to be true!
It won’t be easy—not many girls could do it; but you
can, Maggie, darling, darling! You won’t be afraid!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She flamed to his words, answering him silently,
burningly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I talked to a man who’d been out there—I especially
asked him if there were flowers, I thought you’d
like to know; and he says there are. He says there
are orchids growing right on the trees in sort of
bunches, pale purple and greeny white, and they hold
so much rain that the snakes climb along the branches
and drink out of them—maybe he was fooling me,
but anyway that’s what he said. He said there were
trees all covered with great big cream-colored flowers
that smell fine—I don’t remember the name, but I’ve
got it written down somewhere for you. And you can
get parrots for nothing, almost—of course, they talk
Spanish, but we could teach them. And he said the
babies were awfully cunning, it’s so hot they don’t
wear a stitch, and they’re all copper-colored. And,
perhaps, he was exaggerating, but he said the ferns
along the river were as big as trees——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The firelit walls faded, the falling snow, the ice-filled
river. On another river they floated, locked in
each other’s arms, floating on water like black satin
under the great green lace umbrellas of the ferns, lit
from beneath by a million fireflies, lit from above by
all the stars. A pad, pad of feet in the shadows, and
green eyes looked out at them—the satin water parted
and flowed back from a swimming snake. Terror and
beauty and passion.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The wind sighed, bringing back the snow, clicking it
gently against the window.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That other fellow hates to leave.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why does he?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, he wants to be with his family. He has a
twelve-year-old boy, and it’s bad for children there,
fevers, and no schools.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The shell of ice closed about her heart again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But then—Victor? What about Victor?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, <span class='it'>what</span> about Victor?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t come if Victor can’t come with us—I can’t
leave Victor, Edward.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t be absurd!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But I thought that we—that he—I thought——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m sorry, but, of course, he can’t come with us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then you must go without me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Leave you for five years? Maggie, you’re crazy!
You can leave him here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Edward, you know May and Lily—I couldn’t
leave him with them. May doesn’t think about a
thing in the world but clothes and men, and Lily’s
such a goose. Why, they can’t even take care of themselves,
let alone Victor.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, leave him with someone else, some of your
relations.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How could I leave him with Aunt Priscilla? He’s
never been strong, and you know the way they live,
meals any time or no meals, just a piece of moldy cake,
and <span class='it'>dirt</span>——! Edward, how can you ask me to leave
him with her, when it was her carelessness killed
Mamma?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know, darling, I do understand that. But they
aren’t the only ones. Let him stay with the Blows.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I couldn’t. Cousin Lizzie doesn’t like him. She
doesn’t like any of us. She was in love with Papa,
and I think it made her hate Mamma and all of us,
really. And she’s so queer—I almost think she’s crazy.
And Cousin Sam drinks dreadfully, and they hate
each other. It’s terrible there, it frightens me. And
Victor’s so sensitive, he’s always had such love and
gentleness, it would kill him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’ve all of you always spoiled him, that’s the
real trouble.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We have not! And if we have, is that <span class='it'>his</span> fault?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Anyway, taking him with us is out of the question.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t leave him! I promised Mamma!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She had no right to let you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She had! And anyway I couldn’t leave him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>(“Where are you? I can’t find you! <span class='it'>Oh, where
are you?</span>” And the other was crying, “Come back to
me! I am lost! Come back!” But so far apart,
they could no longer hear each other. They could hear
nothing but anger, feel nothing but anger that filled
the room so that the crimson curtains, the red
geraniums, the fire-colored fish, the fire itself, seemed
part of its blazing.)</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s always come between us—always. Even the
last night before I went west he was down after us,
calling you away. I’d give up my work—it isn’t that—but
you’re the only person in the world that matters
to me, and I must be first to you or I won’t be anything.
I won’t take just what you can spare me from
Victor. If you love me, you’ll come.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He needs me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I need you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not as much as he does—no one needs me as much
as he does.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s Victor or me, Maggie.”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>The baby lay in the big wash-basket under the
wistaria vine wailing until she came to comfort him,
the child ran to her from imagined terrors, the boy
lifted his wet face and swollen eyes to her as she came
out of the room where Mamma was dying. They
held out their hands to her as the Child had held out
his hands on the day of scillas and snow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s Victor, Edward.”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Carefully, as if she were made of thinnest glass, she
moved about the room. Nothing of Edward must be
left, now that Edward himself was gone. The dent
he had made in the sofa cushion, the hearth-rug corner
that his foot turned up. Carefully, so as not to break
her fragile glass fingers, she tidied them. Then she sat
in the window-seat, her eyes on the falling snow, her
hands lying lightly in her lap.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She was empty, empty as the shell of a locust that
still clings to a tree trunk; legs, eyes, body all there,
but the bright soaring wings that were in it, the life
that was in it, torn out and away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And suddenly she ran after him, tore after him,
tumbling down the stairs, leaving the hall door wide
for the wind and the snow to enter, stepping on her
skirt, stumbling, running through the snow in her thin
slippers. He had gone to the Allens’—she would go
to him, they would be together again, forever and ever.
“Edward, Edward, I’m coming—oh, Edward, I want
you!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Edward her lover and friend to whom she had given
the bread of tears.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor,” sighed the wind among the pine branches.
“Victor,” sighed the sifting snow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor frightened. Victor homesick. Victor needing
her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Across the fields she saw Victor trudging home
through the dusk, his shoulders up, his head down
against the snowy wind. Passionate, enfolding tenderness
flooded her, and pain beyond any pain she had
ever known. It was as if her heart had been broken
open so that her brother could enter in completely.
But Edward was there, too, would be there forever.
No matter if she never saw him again, no matter what
happened. Could anything make her stop loving him?
Can storms put out the stars?</p>

<p class='pindent'>She went back to the house, and in to the new life
that still looked so much like the old. The horsehair
sofa, the parlor fire smoking a little, Dicky and Downy
piping in their cages, the smell of carnations and of
frying chicken, the clock on the stairs, that sounded
like water falling drop by drop——</p>

<p class='pindent'>She must go and take off Edward’s place from the
tea-table—she must go—as soon as she stopped
shaking——</p>

<p class='pindent'>The door burst open, and Victor came stamping in,
all red cheeks and snow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hello, Maggie! Where’s Edward?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s gone.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s coming back to tea, isn’t he?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you tell him we were going to have charlotte
russe?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And suddenly she cried in a high quivering voice:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor Campion, I’ve told you one million times
to scrape off your feet and not come tracking snow
into the house!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor looked up with mild reproach from where
he sat struggling with his rubber boots.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, don’t take my head off, Maggie, it isn’t <span class='it'>my</span>
fault Edward couldn’t stay.”</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t5461'>XVII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>The ladies were stealing a good many glances at
the clock beneath the Arab and his prancing steed
on Mrs. Leaf’s mantelpiece. Four o’clock—certainly
time for coffee and cake if their suppers weren’t to be
spoiled. The flannel for the orphans’ nightgowns
puckered more and more slowly over their needles.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then, instead of going comfortably in and
sitting around the dining-room table for their cake
and coffee as they always did, always, at every meeting
of the Guild, Carpus the houseman in his white
jacket, with his black forehead all puckered with perplexity,
brought in a tray and put it on a small spidery
table by Mrs. Leaf—and there wasn’t anything on it
but tea and bread and butter! Tea! And bread and
butter! Mrs. Talbot nearly cried, she was so disappointed,
and Mrs. Pennock gave Mrs. Holly such a
look! It was hardly worth the trouble of balancing
the cups and plates. And poor Miss Perry, who had
counted on saving her supper, gazed round at the blue
velvet ottomans and chairs with their fat fringes, the
grand gas chandelier like a floating bouquet of white
glass tulips with twisty stems, and the bright-colored
peasants dancing on large china vases, and couldn’t
understand it at all. Mrs. Leaf generally gave “such
an elegant entertainment.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Leaf knew what they were feeling, and was
bright pink with self-consciousness. But her guest
from New York, Mrs. Hawthorn, had afternoon tea,
with bread and butter, so the Leafs were having it—and
the ladies of the Guild were having it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Hawthorn’s opulent curves, covered with tight
black silk, filled an <span class='it'>S</span> shaped rocking-chair, white
frothed from beneath her long black train, bracelets
encircled her plump white wrists and a chatelaine-watch
clung to the steeps of her bosom. She was being
charming to everyone, as a rose sheds its fragrance
for all, as a queen bows to the crowd. Mrs. Almond
thought she certainly washed her hair with soda to
make it golden, and told Hessie Farley so; and Hessie
murmured back that <span class='it'>that</span> was probably what gave her
face that queer artificial look, and that very likely it
wasn’t enamelled at all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Fannie and Prentice and their two little girls are
home for a visit, May,” said Mrs. Leaf. “Fannie’s
so anxious to see you. She told me to tell you you
must be sure to come for lawn-tennis, tomorrow morning,
all three of you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We couldn’t, thank you, Mrs. Leaf. Victor gets
home from Harvard this evening, and we simply
couldn’t leave him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But, of course he must come too! Little Victor
Campion a grown-up Harvard gentleman—think of
it! How time flies! You know you all seem children
to me, and yet here’s Fannie been married four years—by
the way, is she a month older than you, or a
month younger? We were trying to remember.
<span class='it'>Older!</span> That’s what I told them. And Robert married
a year and a half, and both the children thinking they
know more about bringing up babies than I do! No
soothing syrup, if you please! And their stuck-up
nurse-girls! But I must say the babies are lovely—remind
me to show you a new photograph of Isabel
holding little Robbie—he certainly looks like his
daddy. Now you come tomorrow, or Fannie will feel
dreadfully. I told her and Lucy Hawthorn they were
bad girls not to stay for the sewing this afternoon, but
they all went over to the Sandersons to play at lawn-tennis—they’re
nuts on it, as Robert says. Carpus!
Now put the tray here—here on the table, and take
the teapot out—excuse me, May—and tell Lissa to fill
it up again. Carpus! Tell Lissa not so strong—not
so strong—no, don’t take the tray, just the <span class='it'>teapot</span>—Mercy!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m afraid my little Goosey-Lucy isn’t much of a
loss as far as the sewing goes,” said Mrs. Hawthorn,
throwing a veil of tact over her friend’s fluster. “She
belongs to a sewing circle in New York, but I don’t
believe the girls do much but gossip and drink chocolate.
I notice most of the sewing’s brought home for
my poor Elise to do.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Elise is Mrs. Hawthorn’s French maid,” Mrs. Leaf
explained. That made up for Carpus acting as if he’d
never seen a teapot in his life before—the foolish!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mrs. Hawthorn was lovely, wasn’t she?” asked
Lily as the sisters walked home. “Did you see her
handkerchief? It was all lace except for a piece of
cambric about the size of a postage stamp, and she
smelled so sweet, like that soap from Paris Cousin
Lizzie gave you one Christmas, sort of heliotropy.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>May’s face flushed darkly, and her lip began to
tremble.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I couldn’t bear her! You could see every minute
she was thinking, ‘I’m being charming! I’m being
perfectly charming to all these country bumpkins!’
Yes, and that’s what we are—country bumpkins, and
I’m <span class='it'>sick</span> of it! Aren’t we ever going to do anything
all our lives but sit at home and scrimp, scrimp,
scrimp, so that <span class='it'>Victor</span> can have nice clothes, <span class='it'>Victor</span>
can get away, <span class='it'>Victor</span> can go to college? We’re human,
too, aren’t we?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, <span class='it'>May</span>——!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, ‘why, <span class='it'>May</span>!’ I’m sick and tired of wearing a
steamed velvet iron-holder trimmed with an old duck
wing Maggie’s cured on the wagon-shed wall, because
I can’t afford a hat, and so Victor <span class='it'>can</span>. Who’d look
at me, who’d look at any of us in these old made-overs?
Who is there <span class='it'>to</span> look, anyway? There isn’t a man
here who isn’t married or about a hundred—but Victor
must have everything, so we’ll just sit at home and
twiddle our thumbs and get older and older and older,
and fifty years from now they’ll still be calling us the
Campion girls——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She began to laugh. “Did you hear Mrs. Leaf
bragging to me about Fannie and Robert and their
children? Why should <span class='it'>I</span> be expected to be interested
in Robert Leaf’s baby, I should like to know? He
and Isabel can have a million babies for all I care—it
certainly isn’t of the slightest importance to
me——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, May!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, Lily! I wish you could see your face!” May
laughed, harder, harder, until she was almost sobbing.
And then suddenly the jangle of laughter stopped,
and she looked faint and exhausted, opening her hand
and letting the hot crushed daisies she had snatched
off by their heads fall to the ground.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They had scraped to send Victor to Harvard. May
complained, but she made their clothes just the same,
turning and making over and trimming with bits of
this and that from the piece bag in the entry closet,
until they looked pretty enough really to have come
from the grand places whose labels she ripped out of
Mamma’s old gowns and sewed in. And she trimmed
their hats, too, taking one by one the stuffed birds, the
oriole, the bluejay, the rose-breasted grosbeak, from
their branches under the glass bell on top of Papa’s
secretary.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie did the cooking. Martha had married her
young darkie, and a life he was leading her! And
Lily helped save by giving up her music lessons with
Miss Martin, and working alone, with a novel propped
open on the music rack while she practiced her scales,
to relieve the monotony.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie had set her heart on Victor’s going to
Harvard because Papa had gone there. And Victor
wanted to go, too, while the going was still far away,
while the mountains were distant waves of mist-blue,
instead of steep grey rocks and slipping stones. At
home, planning to go, he had been all of Harvard;
but when he got to Harvard he was nothing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Those first homesick days! He would have run
home to The Maples if he could, as he had run on
his first day of school.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He sat in his small room looking as lost as if he
were alone on a raft in the middle of the sea. From
his window he saw a thin grey cat slowly stalk a
sparrow; then a man came by calling bananas. The
sparrow flew away, the cat poured itself through a
hole in a fence, the banana man’s cries grew fainter
and were still.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At dusk he went out and bought a box of crackers.
He could see that the other young men on the streets
were all accustomed to the place, that everyone knew
everyone else intimately. They knew just where they
were going and why, as they walked along, calm and
assured. He felt as if they were all looking at him,
and laughing. And although he thought he was lost in
the strange streets, he <span class='it'>couldn’t</span> ask the way. “Could
you please tell me——” No, he couldn’t make a
sound——</p>

<p class='pindent'>And in sudden terror of having really been stricken
dumb, he dashed into a drug store, that seemed so
friendly with its familiar smell, its bright blue boxes
of the very same toothpowder that they used at The
Maples, the “Pear’s Soap Boy” getting his scrubbing
from his grandmother, that he could ask quite naturally
for a box of shoe polish.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He came out of the drug store, drooping his eyelids
and curving his mouth scornfully, then catching sight
of a clock on a building, pulled out Papa’s big watch,
compared the two, and suddenly hurried off with a
slight, anxious frown, as if he were late for an important
engagement. Lamps were being lit in the houses—he
could see books, geraniums, maids pulling curtains
together. Lamps were being lit for these other
people, lamps were being lit at home——</p>

<p class='pindent'>Oh, the breathless relief of getting off the street
into his own room! He shut the door and leaned
against it, his heart pounding as if there were pursuers
on the stairs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He ate the crackers, pausing for a long time between
bites, his wide blue eyes fixed absently on the
smoky red wall. He and the girls were coming home
from a walk in the autumn dusk—a rabbit’s white
tail went flashing under a hedge. The boats on the
river hooted and moaned to each other through the
fog, and the yellow leaves under the tulip tree were
too wet to rustle. May’s chilly pink fingers lit the first
fire, the thin blue and yellow flames came licking
through the dry sticks and around the logs that had
waited there for them ever since last April, beetles that
had set up housekeeping came bursting out, the smoke
poured up in one thick, greyish yellow curl. They
had supper in front of the fire, cold beef and hot baked
potatoes, and big, pale yellow-green grapes——</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was getting into bed in his room at home.
Everything was just as it had always been, except the
new suit waiting to be put on tomorrow, the bag still
open, waiting for his brush and comb and toothbrush,
and the two oblongs of dark olive-green leaves and
vermilion berries on the wall paper that everywhere
else had faded to shades of straw color. Mamma had
hung there in her sealskin sacque, caught in a photographer’s
snowstorm, and Papa, with his hand thrust
into the front of his coat, but now they were packed
to go to Cambridge with him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was a tapping at the door, and Maggie’s
voice, low, so as not to wake the others.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor—I saw your light. Are you all right?
Can I help do anything?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And he answered, pretending to yawn, so that she
shouldn’t guess that he was wide awake with nervousness
and excitement:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Aw righ’, thank you—g’nigh’——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Well, here he was. He finished his crackers. And
then he blackened his shoes, slowly, thoroughly. When
they were polished, that was all there was to it. He
had nowhere to go in them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But after awhile he made some friends, and they
had good times together.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At the Holly Tree Inn, around the oil-cloth covered
table that red-haired John in his red shirt was wiping
up with a cloth as black as a crow:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now I’ll tell you what it is about this fellow
Zola——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The girl I’d like to see is Lily Langtry. Very
snappy, my boy, very snappy!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Happy thought! What about an oyster supper
and a few bottles of the rosy, one of these frosty
evenings, beloved brethren?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And John’s grubby hand setting down the wonderful
poached eggs and hot, thin, buttered toast.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Strolling together to the place on the corner of
Holyoke Street, with its cigars, its soda-fountain with
the slender marble pillars on either side of the mirror,
its jewelled lamp that might have lighted some harem.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Afternoon, gentlemen.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>White walrus-mustache, eyeglasses on a bit of pink
string, and straw hat that seemed as much a part of
him as the fungus is part of the tree, he stood there in
shirt-sleeves and velveteen waistcoat, mixing soft
drinks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s yours, Mr. Campion?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>To have such friends! To be called by name!
“Ham sandwich and chocolate ice-cream soda,
General!” And in his heart he was jumping up and
down like an excited little boy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A night in Boston, starting with “musties” at Billy
Park’s, and going on—where? Among the clouds,
among the comets? All men were brave, all women
beautiful.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ha-a-appy <span class='it'>thought</span>! Nozher bottle of oh be
joyful!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Fixshed bayonet for me, Zhorzh.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Branny—shhh-<span class='it'>mash</span>!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And coming home in the horse car, how sweetly they
sang:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘When I drive out eash day in my little coo-pay hay—’</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<span class='it'>hold—it——</span></p>
<p class='line0'>‘I tell you I’m shomehing to shee——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>They sang so sweetly that Victor could not keep back
his tears. Their voices died, his sobs died. He and
his friends slept upon each other’s shoulders until at
the Yard entrance the kind conductor called, “Good
morning, gents! Sports’ Alley!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then they saw each other home, back and forth,
back and forth, for hours. And finally, in his own
room, Victor remembered the carnation in his buttonhole.
Someone had put it there—who in the dickens?
Someone he’d promised never to forget. He put it in
his hat in the middle of the floor and poured in all
the water from his pitcher. Now and then he would
lose himself in dreamy admiration of anything his eyes
happened to fall on—his lamp, his soapdish—but
presently he would wrench himself back, and pour in
a little more water, until it was all used and, something
accomplished, something done, he could go to
bed in his boots.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But lessons—examinations——</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had tried—but before he understood the beginnings
of things, the class was leaping on, and he was
trying to leap with it, trying to read before he knew
his letters. Clutching his hair in his hands, he would
scowl at his books under his green shaded student-lamp,
despairing, yawning, taking a great bite of
apple, and wishing for some open-sesame that would
magically unlock the door of knowledge for him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He hadn’t passed his examinations. He had been
warned after the mid-years, and now he had to tell the
girls that he wasn’t going back. The train lurched
towards home from familiar station to familiar station.
The car lamps swung and creaked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, girls, brace yourselves for a shock—yours
truly is home for good.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The blue river with its white sails unrolled alongside
the tracks, the daisies ran down to them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I have to tell you something. I couldn’t pass the
exams., and the pleasure of my company is not requested
for next year.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The church spire over the trees, the Leaf’s high
hedge, Mrs. Pennock’s cows a brown fleet in the foam
of daisies. But the feeling of home withheld itself,
he couldn’t feel anything but that gnawing sickness at
the pit of his stomach.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Girls, I am sorry to have to tell you——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And in the middle of Maggie’s account of the
ridiculous time Aunt Priscilla was having with her
guinea-chickens, he burst out, sounding loud and rough
because he had been planning it so long:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t go back next year! I couldn’t pass my
examinations!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had told! He had told, and they didn’t scorn
him. Maggie said she’d always heard, <span class='it'>always</span>, that
examinations didn’t signify anything, <span class='it'>really</span>; and, of
<span class='it'>course</span>, he couldn’t go back and be a freshman all over
again. Lily cried, “Those <span class='it'>mean</span> professors,” and wept
a little; and May said everybody knew that what you
went to college for was the friends you made, not the
things you learned out of books. Waves of love broke
over him, waves of gratitude, and he would have died
for his sisters happily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And at last the blinding, numbing tension was dissolved,
and he could let the feeling of home flow
through him, the sweet air, the lights moving silently
on the river, the shadowy parlor and the absurd things
that had been there forever, no one knew why, no one
knew from where—the lacquer bowl with its strange
sweet smell, the three-cornered bronze ink-well that
never held any ink in its little glass hat, the penwiper
of a doll’s head dressed as a nun on which no pens were
wiped. Drunk with relief he plunged after Maggie,
helping her shut the windows for the night, and doing
such things to the curtains! It nearly drove her crazy,
and yet she couldn’t say anything, it was so sweet of
him to try to help.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t5877'>XVIII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Happiness to wake at dawn and lie listening
to the birds, to bathe in the crackling copper-lined
tub, and go leaping down through the soaking
grass to get a brown and yellow pansy all beaded with
dew for his buttonhole; to eat strawberries and mud,
and presently at breakfast, with the girls beaming on
him, more strawberries, and coffee with thick, yellow
cream instead of chalk and water and bluing (“<span class='it'>Really</span>
chalk and water and bluing?” Lily wanted to know)
brown eggs Albert had brought in an hour ago, corn
bread, and ham still sputtering and sizzling in the
dish. Home again!</p>

<p class='pindent'>And that morning he met Lucy Hawthorn.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They all went to the Leafs, even Maggie, who said
she was too old for such gadding and had a hundred
things she had to do at home, anyway. But Victor
wanted her to come.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dark cedar trees half hid the blue stone house
with its low bay-windows, and swept the shaven lawn
that unrolled to the stone breakwater against which
the river was clucking and slapping now, and from
which at low tide the river mud spread like wet
chocolate icing. The air above the round beds of
heliotrope quivered with fragrance.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, Victor! How does it seem to be home?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hello, Victor! How did you leave Fair Harvard?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mrs. Hawthorn, Mr. Campion.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Hawthorn, sitting in the lovely, liquid shadow
of her lilac parasol, gave him her famous smile, while
she took in every detail through the little black lace
veil that came just to the tip of her nose.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Prentice Page with ferns inside his hat to keep off
the sun, looking like a faun from the forest, played
with May against pretty Fannie and Maggie in her
manly straw sailor, and Lily good-naturedly trotted
after the balls, protesting, “Oh, I like to, really, <span class='it'>truly</span>
I do, I’d <span class='it'>loads</span> rather!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The ball bounced gently from tiny racquet to tiny
racquet across the casual sagging of the low net. The
girls in their eelskin dresses and long ruffled skirts
held on their hats as they played, but Lucy, sitting
on the grass with Victor, had taken hers off, and the
sun gleamed on the pale brown silk sweep of her hair
from the cloud of soft frizz on her forehead to the
low knot of braids like shining brown nuts. She was
all pink and cream, her little ears, her tender little
nose, the delicate soft curve of her chin, candid and
young. The rose, fringed about with other sweetnesses,
heliotrope, pinks, and rose geranium leaves, is
the heart of the nosegay; and in the lovely surrounding
of sunny fragrant air, kind happy voices, being
home again, the relief of having told, Lucy was the
rose.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What funny little gold pigs on your bracelet!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’re <span class='it'>porte-bonheurs</span>. Aren’t they sweet? I
love my piggie-wiggies!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lucky pigs! Oh, look! Three brown butterflies
have settled on your skirt!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Where?</span> Oh, you mean those bows! But real
<span class='it'>flowers</span> are the most fashionable trimming now, so
why not real butterflies?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Happy thought! How about real fruit and vegetables?
A ball gown with a spinach what-do-you-call-em
gored on the bias with tomatoes, and a cabbage
for a bouquet!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Mr. Campion, don’t! You’re giving me a
stitch in my side! But you mustn’t call my butterfly
bows brown—that color’s ‘Bottled Cloves,’ if you
please, Sir!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Live and learn! What color is this lovely dress?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This old rag? What color would you say?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sky-blue pink!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Go to the foot of the class! It’s ‘Marguerite Blue,’
and Fannie’s blue is called ‘Heavy Eyes.’ ”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They sound like drinks—‘Lady’s Smiles’ and
‘Morning-Glories.’ ”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m afraid everything sounds like a drink to you
fast Harvard men—I suppose you’re all <span class='it'>dreadfully</span>
wild. I’m frightened to death of you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, say not so,” said Victor, looking as wild as
he could.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you graduate this year, Mr. Campion?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, no——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, you’re going back!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, as a matter of fact, I don’t think I <span class='it'>will</span> go
back next year. The fact is, I feel as if I ought to stay
here and take care of my sisters and look after the
estate, you know.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I do think that’s wonderful!” said Lucy’s soft
voice, and Lucy’s forget-me-not eyes said, “How noble
you are! How noble!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Prentice and May were cooling off in the shade,
while Victor and Lucy took their places.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“More beauteous than ever, May—whose heart are
you breaking now?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I’ve settled down to being an old maid, Prentice.
I’ve decided I’d rather paddle my own canoe.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Tell that to the marines! Those eyes will never
let you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She crossed her slender ankles, pulling up her skirt
a little, and touched his face with the spray of heliotrope
she had been holding to her lips.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The slave brushes the flies away from the face of
the Sultan,” she murmured.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Look at that girl, Bessie!” Mrs. Hawthorn said to
Mrs. Leaf. “Look at the amount of ankle she’s showing—and
making such eyes at Prentice. You can see
he’s laughing at her.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Robert was very much taken with her several
years ago—I thought something might come of it, but
then he lost interest, for some reason—that seems to
be the way with May Campion and her young men,
and I’m sure I don’t know why.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t you, my dear? I do. She’s so distressingly
eager.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But she’s very pretty and animated.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Much too animated. I’m sure she’s been told it
suits her, so she’s always on the sparkle, no matter
what one’s saying. I find her exhausting. And <span class='it'>can</span>
that color be natural? I think it was a lucky escape
for Robert.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I was relieved, I must say. She gets so excited,
and sort of wild looking sometimes, and there
<span class='it'>is</span> a queer streak in the family—her cousin Mrs. Blow,
went raving crazy a couple of years ago, and died
from running out into a blizzard with nothing on but
her nightgown; and you know anything like that makes
one so nervous.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Carpus came over the lawn with a clucking pitcher
of lemonade, and they sat together on the grass, drinking
and talking.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let me read your palm, Prentice—oh, what a trail
of broken hearts I see!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What do you think? My cruel husband wouldn’t
take me to see Bernhardt in ‘<span class='it'>La Dame aux Camelias</span>’!
He said he was afraid my French wasn’t bad enough!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Are you fond of the light fantastic, Miss Hawthorn?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A little more lemonade, <span class='it'>if</span> you please—whoa,
Emma!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, my dear! Don’t mention jersey dresses! The
times I’ve had getting out of mine!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Gracious, Maggie, how strong minded you sound!
Don’t tell us you’re one of the Shrieking Sisterhood!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Long trailing golden wings of sunlit air quivered
over them—over them all—over Lucy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And Victor, drunken with happiness, showing off to
her, pretended his tennis racquet was a banjo, and
strummed on it, singing:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Ping Wing, the Pieman’s son,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;Was the very worst boy in all Canton;</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;He ate his mother’s pickled mice,’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>(Screams from the ladies!)</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘And threw the cat on the boiling rice,</p>
<p class='line0'>And when he’d eaten her, said he:</p>
<p class='line0'>“Me wonders where the mew-cat be!” ’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>For the first time in his life he really saw his home,
because Lucy was going to see it. He nearly drove
his sisters crazy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie! Maggie! One of the calla lilies on the
fountain is broken!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, <span class='it'>Victor</span>! That was broken off before you were
born.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, did you know that the second pine tree on
the drive is nearly dead?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It seemed to him that the whole house, the whole
place, was falling to pieces, that as he looked cracks
and blotches appeared on walls lightly held together
by cobwebs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fat Lily, scarlet and streaming, hurled herself up
the terraces with the lawnmower, Maggie laundered
the muslin curtains and rewashed the best china with
its light red seaweed pattern, May cut owls and bats
and crescent moons out of dark brown paper and made
a new dado of them for the parlor. And Victor, drunk
with nervousness, bumped into them all, ran upstairs,
forgot what he had come for, ran down again, and
wished he had never been born.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The day was like an accordion. First it stretched
out for ever so long, and then—swish!—it was folded
up to almost nothing. If he didn’t hurry, he wouldn’t
be dressed by the time they came! Even if he did
hurry, it was too late now. And he tried to decide
whether to wear his blue tie that really was the color
of his eyes, or the raspberry-red one that stood for a
passionate nature and Harvard. With shaking fingers
he tied the blue, took it off, tried the red, half untied it,
tied it again, looked at himself severely in the glass,
took it off in a frantic hurry. He couldn’t decide, he
simply couldn’t! In a panic he saw himself changing
his tie all night—all his life—forever and ever, red,
blue, red, blue, red, blue——</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>May!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>What?</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Shall I wear my blue tie or my red?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good gracious, I don’t care—blue!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Oh, what a relief!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Victor!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Hello!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hurry yup!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All right!” And he sat down on the edge of his
bed, his clasped hands squeezed between his knees, and
lapsed into a dream of Lucy.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodnight—we’ve had a lovely time! Goodnight!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodnight! Goodnight!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll push the shutters to, May, if you’ll bolt them.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you know, Fannie’s getting fat! But her
dress was real pretty, wasn’t it? I loved those bands
of terra-cotta ribbon embroidered with trails of jasmine.
I could fix over my pale green Cashmere that
way.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lossie waited pretty well for just coming in, don’t
you think? And ain’t it heavenly to think of the
dishes all washed!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It seemed to me you had to do an awful lot of
whispering,” May said discouragingly. “And my
goodness, Lily, I was never so mortified in my life as
I was at the way you kept smiling at her!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Lily hadn’t been able to help it, for she had
remembered the way Lossie used to play “Company
to Dinner” with them when they were children, in the
tender green light under the beech tree, and she had
almost expected to find slices of peony petal ham and
maple seed fried potatoes on the plates that Lossie’s
black hand set before them, and mud-and-water coffee
in the cups.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I thought she did pretty well,” Maggie
repeated. “But I oughtn’t to have trusted her to make
the coffee—how <span class='it'>could</span> she have gotten it that way?
It was just like mud and water.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Was there any ice-cream left? Doesn’t anybody
want some?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lily! Don’t yawn that way—you’ll dislocate
your jaw! <span class='it'>Goodnight, Victor!</span> Aren’t you going to
say goodnight?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor, floating up the stairs, came out of his trance
with a start.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh—goodnight!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Can</span> you see why he’s so moony about Lucy?
Really, it’s a good thing she’s going home soon. She’s
a right nice little thing, but she hasn’t enough sense to
say boo to a goose.”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>The clouds washed over the moon like thin waves,
the whole sky was flowing. In the few clear patches
the stars were pale in the flood of silver light.
Feathery dark clouds, clouds thin as gauze, streaming
over the moon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie looked out at the night, yawning, thinking
how early she would have to get up to look after her
newly hatched chickens. And as she looked, another
moon rose in her heart, a great bubble of apricot pink
floated up from the river, and she and Edward watched
it, speaking to each other without words.</p>

<p class='pindent'>May looked out at the night before she lay down
beside Lily, placidly sleeping with her fringe in a row
of cocoons on her forehead. Oh, the moon made you
feel queer! Why had she acted like such a cheap
fool in the garden after supper? Oh, <span class='it'>why</span> had she
let Prentice say those things, flattering and insolent?
She knew she had been crazy to think he meant them
when she saw him in the lamp-light again, saying goodbye
in the hall, with Fannie’s pretty ringed hand
dangling through his arm. Perhaps, lying in bed before
they went to sleep, he would tell her about it,
laughing a little, and Fannie would laugh, too, pityingly,
and say, “Poor old May!”</p>

<p class='pindent'><span class='it'>Oh!</span> She crushed her cold hands against her blazing
face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor leaned out his window looking up at the sky.
Of course, he had thought he was in love, hundreds of
times, but this was different.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lucy! Lucy!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>You are a dove, Lucy, my Lucy. You are a little
white lamb. You are everything that is gentle and
pure——</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>It’s like praying to think of you, Lucy——</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Well, really, Lucy, I don’t call myself an authority
—oh, no, no, you are too kind—but since you ask for
my opinion——</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Suddenly he put his head down in his arms, loving
her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>It means waiting, darling.</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And he could imagine her answering:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>I would wait for you forever.</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Lucy, I come to you stained and scarred——</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>(Oh, those glasses of beer at Billy Park’s! Oh, the
last horse-car jingling out to Cambridge!)</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Lucy, I think you’re so lovely!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The clouds flowed over the moon, from the river he
heard the wash of the tide coming in. Through all his
being he felt the stir, the flow of the night, the clouds,
the waves, the faintly breathing wind, the people all
over the world who were awake, who were loving each
other.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t6282'>XIX</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie hung Victor’s dress-suit on the clothes-line
to get rid of the smell of camphor. He was
going to New York to stay at the Fifth Avenue Hotel
where Papa had stayed, and to go to Lucy Hawthorn’s
ball. There had been a glazed cream-colored invitation
for the girls, too, that Lily kept lying carelessly
on the hall table, where everyone could see it; but
Maggie said, of course, they couldn’t think of going.</p>

<p class='pindent'>May had thought of it. Just for a moment she saw
herself at the ball, dancing, floating in the arms of a
tall stranger with a fascinating ugly face——</p>

<p class='pindent'>Not being able to have a new dress wouldn’t matter—she
could fix up the <span class='it'>eau de Nil</span> corded silk with the
coffee stain on the skirt that Aunt Priscilla had given
them, and that had been too grand for anything they
would be apt to go to. She was so slender she could
take that front breadth right out. And she had seen
just the trimming for it in Wilmington—bands of tiny
shells. Rainbow-colored shells peeping from waves of
faint water-green silk—a mermaid come from the
foam.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>I have been looking for you all my life. Where
have you been hidden away?</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where? Where?” the violins cried. “Where?”
cried the plucked strings of the harp.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>But now that I have found you——</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But, of course, she knew that they couldn’t afford
it. They really couldn’t afford it for Victor, but for
him they would manage somehow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Coming back from the clothes-line, Maggie stopped
by the bed of lilies-of-the-valley by the porch, such a
convenient place for cherry stones. How sweet, how
sweet! She never could get by them, even when she
had a hundred things to do in the house she must pause
before their altar. Now there was Victor’s grey suit to
sponge and press for the trip, a cake to make, and lunch
to get, but she knelt beside them, breathing their fragrance,
loving them. She gathered a spray or two of
great white bells, their stems squeaking as she pulled
them, and a cool green leaf, to take into the kitchen
with her. They had never been so beautiful.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Why shouldn’t Victor take a big bunch of them to
Lucy? She suggested it to him when he came strolling
out to the kitchen where she was cracking eggs for an
omelet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll pack them in a nice box with wet cotton, and
you take them up just as soon as you get there—Victor,
<span class='it'>don’t</span> eat those raisins, you’ll spoil your lunch. You’ll
see they haven’t anything like these in New York.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, well, I guess they’ll have plenty of flowers—I
don’t believe I’d bother—I mean, I guess they’ll
have enough,” said Victor, dreadfully embarrassed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They won’t have any like these, and it won’t be a
bit of trouble. I’ll pack the box right in your bag,”
Maggie said, killing a currant on the table with great
firmness under the impression that it was a fly; and she
thought, “If he takes them in the afternoon, they’ll
know he’s reached New York, and they’ll certainly
ask him to supper, even if it’s just a pick-up meal
because of the party.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Oh, she did want him to have a good time! Her
heart still ached so for him, because he had not been
able to go back to Harvard. She had suffered for him
all winter—so hard on him hanging around the place.
She would look at him standing in the window watching
the falling snow, whistling and rocking back and
forth from his toes to his heels, or yawning by the fire
over “A Daughter of Heth,” or “Just As I Am,” and
think that really he would be happier doing some sort
of work. But Victor felt that it was important to wait
until just the right position offered itself.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie found a splendid box for the lilies-of-the-valley,
but just because it said “1 pr. Corsets, extra
heavy boning” Victor was ridiculous, even though she
offered to paste a piece of plain paper over the shocking
words. So they had to be put in another box, not
nearly as good.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He would much rather have let them stay at the
hotel, much much rather. But he thought of Maggie
going out last night after she had finished the dishes—she
wouldn’t let May wash them because of her pretty
hands, or Lily, because she broke too many plates—gathering
a great burst of them, carillons of silver
bells, cool with evening, and bringing them in for him
to see and smell, her face shining.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He meant just to leave them at the big brownstone
house. He was astonished to hear himself asking the
butler, “Is Miss Hawthorn in?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is that the man about the extra chairs?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Hawthorn came into the hall, all sweeping
violet silk and foaming lace—was she dressed for the
ball already at five in the afternoon, or could it be only
a tea-gown?</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Are you the man about the extra chairs?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh—I’m Victor Campion, Mrs. Hawthorn—I just—I
wondered if Lucy——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh. Mr. Campion. Yes, I remember.” She gave
him a finger and said in a preoccupied voice, “I’m
sorry, Lucy is lying down.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, that’s all right! I just brought a few lilies-of-the-valley,
they aren’t anything really, but we
thought——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He followed her into the drawing-room, cleared of
most of its furniture, and sat on the edge of a small
gilt chair, not wanting to stay, but afraid she would
be hurt if he went right away. He felt his face getting
red. “It’s warm today, isn’t it?” he asked, laughing
a little, nervously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Heavens, will the goose <span class='it'>never</span> go?” thought Mrs.
Hawthorn; and she let a moment pass before she
answered:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Very warm.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had never seen such a grand parlor. The high
sky-blue ceiling was painted with clouds and cupids,
and from it hung gas globes like giants’ egg-cups, with
the profiles of Roman emperors clear on the ground
glass. Long mirrors reflected over and over again the
firescreen of terra-cotta silk embroidered with bullrushes,
the marble lady looking down at a butterfly
perched on her shoulder, Mrs. Hawthorn’s violet
draperies, and his own best grey suit and flaming face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Would it be all right to go now? He didn’t know
how late you could get supper at the hotel, and he felt
as if he had been sitting there for hours. There was a
clock on the mantelpiece, but it was so fancy, its hands
were such delicate traceries of golden frost-work
against a golden moon of background that he couldn’t
read it at all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I think maybe I’d better——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And somehow he was out of the house, on the street.
What a relief!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Mercy!</span>” cried Mrs. Hawthorn, flapping her hands
with exasperation, as she hurried into the dining-room
for a last look at the table before the florist’s men left.
All white and palest green, lilies-of-the-valley, masses
and masses of them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lucy, rosy with sleep, came trailing down, wrapped
in a dressing gown of pale blue silk trimmed with
swansdown, like fluffy white clouds in a summer sky,
and helped herself to a glacé pear from a dish on the
table.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Your rustic admirer has been here,” said her
mother. “That Campion young man. He left a box
of something or other for you somewhere, and he hopes
we’ll understand why his sisters couldn’t come. Lucy
Hawthorn, those extra chairs aren’t here <span class='it'>yet</span>!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Mother! To think of Victor’s coming all the
way here for my ball! Oh, <span class='it'>can’t</span> we ask him to the
dinner?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her flower-blue eyes filled with tears as she thought
of his lonely dinner at the hotel, her hand went out for
a piece of crystallized pineapple.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No we can’t—there really isn’t room for him.
I’m sorry, but good gracious! Who would have
<span class='it'>dreamed</span> of the goose coming all that distance? Now,
Lucy, don’t cry, or you’ll spoil your eyes, and don’t
eat any more candied fruit, or you’ll spoil the looks of
the table.”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Should he dress before dinner, or after? He
couldn’t decide, and this time he couldn’t call over the
stairs and ask one of the girls. If he could only go
down and look first, to see what other people did. Perhaps,
if he got dressed up, he’d be too conspicuous.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And for one weak moment he thought, “I don’t believe
I want any dinner. They’ll be sure to have
refreshments at the Hawthorns’.” But he did go
down.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Everything on the menu in French! He knew what
some of the words meant, and he could have pronounced
them splendidly to the girls, but pronouncing
them to the waiter who had been fairly sputtering
French to another waiter was different.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Er—how is this today?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The man stopped humming a little song up above
Victor’s head, and asked meanly, ignoring his pointing
finger:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How is what, sir?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>How purposeful and efficient the other diners
looked, how perfectly clear about everything. He
finished his first course, moved his glass to hide a spot
of gravy on the table cloth, and waited for his chocolate
ice-cream.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He waited and waited. Other people who had
come in after him finished their dinner and went. He
wouldn’t stand it! He frowned, drumming on the
table, and looked at his watch. Well, he had a long,
long time before he need leave the hotel, but still he
wasn’t going to sit there and be ignored. He tried to
see his waiter among those who skated past with bowls
of salad or tureens of soup, who set down the dishes
with a flourish that was almost a caress.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He wouldn’t stand it another minute! And he said
meekly to a waiter so young and inexperienced that he
allowed his eye to be caught:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh—would you mind telling my waiter I’m ready
for my ice-cream now?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And all of a sudden, for the first time, he really felt,
he really believed that in two or three hours he was
going to see Lucy. He could feel his heart thumping;
he was dizzy, dreamy with happiness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Anything more, sir?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh-a—what?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He must have eaten his ice-cream without ever
noticing it, lost in thoughts of Lucy, for there was the
saucer in front of him, with just a few pale brown
streaks left in it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was almost on the Hawthorns’ steps before he
decided that he was too early. So he took a long
walk; and, when he came back, music was pouring
from the open windows, carriages were rolling up and
away, and a small crowd was watching gentlemen in
crush hats and ladies in swansdown <span class='it'>sortie des bals</span>
skim over the scarlet carpet from carriage to door. He
followed them in more haughtily than any king.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Out of the blur, among all the people to whom he
gave his beaming smile and dazzled blue gaze, he saw
only Lucy—Lucy with her silky hair and apple-blossom
skin, wearing a blue satin gown hand-painted
with daisies, with a tight little basque buttoned down
the front and a great, long grown-up train pouring
out from masses of puffs and drapings.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The pianist flung up his hands and scattered a
shower of silver drops. Flute, harp, and violin awoke;
and at last Victor and Lucy were dancing together.</p>

<p class='pindent'><span class='it'>One</span>, two, three, and a <span class='it'>one</span>, two, three!</p>

<p class='pindent'>He wished it had been a waltz—there was something
so brisk about a polka. And what a crowd!
Bump! “Excuse me, Lucy!” Bump! “Excuse me!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Flowers everywhere—roses, carnations, heliotrope.
And masses and masses of lilies-of-the-valley—his
were a drop in the sea, lost.</p>

<p class='pindent'><span class='it'>Bump!</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s such a jam, let’s go to the conservatory,” Lucy
suggested a little breathlessly. “Doesn’t the fountain
sound cool? Oh, Victor, thank you so much for the
<span class='it'>beau</span>tiful flowers—see, I’m wearing a little bunch of
them, they’re so much bigger and sweeter than the ones
that came from the florist’s!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her hand poised above his flowers among the laces
at her bosom, touched them lightly as a hovering white
butterfly. The darling! The darling! His heart
swelled with gratitude and love.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, they aren’t anything—really! I just
thought——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, dear, there’s the music—I must fly!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lucy—how soon can I have another dance?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Victor, I’m <span class='it'>terribly</span> sorry, but——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, that’s all right!” he assured her, too quickly,
too eagerly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But I’ll introduce you to some nice girls.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Damn some nice girls!” he wanted to shout. But
what he said was:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’ll be fine.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But didn’t I meet you at dinner?” asked the first
nice girl.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“At dinner?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, here at Lucy’s dinner tonight?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh—no! No, I couldn’t get here to dinner,”
Victor assured her. “I was unavoidably detained.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Bump!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Suppose we go to the conservatory—it’s lots too
crowded for dancing,” said the nice girl. She stole a
look at her new pink satin slippers—he had danced all
over them! She pulled up her gloves, settled her
bangles, and unfurled her fan with the swansdown
edge.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Doesn’t the fountain sound cool, Mr.—eh——?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had never felt so forlorn and homesick in his
life. The music rose and fell sadly—a waltz, this
time. Stay with me, my love, my love! No, I cannot
stay.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He squeezed his hands in their new white kid gloves
between his knees. “The fountain sounds cool, doesn’t
it?” he asked.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie had said, “Don’t come home the day after
the dance—stay two nights. As long as you’re in
New York you might as well really see it. And if the
Hawthorns ask you to spend a few days, just you
do it!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So no one was expecting him as he bumped up the
porch steps with his bag the afternoon after the ball.
The lilies-of-the-valley perfumed the air—he was almost
surprised that they were still in bloom, it seemed
so long since he left home yesterday morning. How
strange to see the house when he was supposed to be
miles and miles away, looking just as it would have
looked if at this minute he had still been in New York.
May’s flower scissors and a litter of wet stems and
leaves, Lily’s old shade hat with its muslin bow,
Maggie’s muddy overshoes, and Maggie herself coming
up from the chicken-yard.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Victor!</span>” And then the delight changed to lamenting.
“Oh, I told the butcher not to stop today!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>At her cry May and Lily came bursting out of the
house to welcome him, to ask him a hundred questions.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have they an elegant house?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Didn’t they like the lilies-of-the-valley?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did Lucy look nice? What did she wear?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, white, I think, or blue—something, anyway.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I should <span class='it'>hope</span> so!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What was the entertainment? Just salad and ice-cream,
or did you have lobster? Do tell us!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And as he answered he became confident, self-possessed,
a man of the world kindly amused at all this
feminine flutter. They saw him the center of the ball,
the master of ceremonies, the strong oak for those three
ivies, Mr. and Mrs. Hawthorn and Miss Hawthorn,
to cling to. He almost saw himself so, through their
eyes.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t6687'>XX</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Twice Lucy came to visit the Leafs’, and each
time Victor loved her more. He thought of her
all the summer, all the autumn, all the winter. Well,
not quite all. Not when he was enjoying biscuits like
little puffs of summer cloud, with the golden honey
from the row of beehives along the grape-house, nor
when he was wishing Maggie wouldn’t have mutton
hash so often. Not when he was scratching mosquito
bites, or blowing on cold fingers to warm them, not
when he was brushing his teeth, putting Rowland’s
Macassar Oil where his mustache should be but wasn’t,
or discovering on Market Street that his sock had a
hole in its heel. Not when he and Pip Grant and
Tommy Holly, heads together, were singing at the
top of their lungs:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Miss Judy O’Connor lived frinst me</p>
<p class='line0'>And tinder lines to her I wrote,</p>
<p class='line0'>If you dare say one hard word agin her</p>
<p class='line0'><span class='it'>I’ll</span>—thread on the tail of your mush, mush, mush,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;toorily addy</p>
<p class='line0'>Mush, mush, mush, toorily aye——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>But as much as most of us do when we say with all our
hearts to the beloved, “I think of you every minute.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And with the lilies-of-the-valley Lucy came again to
the Leafs’, but only to say goodbye before she went
abroad, to make the Grand Tour.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor wrote to her.</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>May 15.</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:left;margin-left:0em;'><span class='sc'>Dear dearest Lucy:</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>I wanted to tell you something while you were here,
but I couldn’t. But now I can’t hold in any longer.
I love you. I love you so much. Darling, darling
Lucy, do you think you can ever love me? I come
to you stained and scarred—I’m not worthy of you,
but no man could be that, for you are like an
angel, so lovely and innocent and good, I want to cry
when I think about you.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It means asking you to wait for me, Lucy. I
haven’t anything to offer you except all my love, but I
have accepted a position in Wilmington with a real
estate company—it is rather a small beginning, but it
is my belief there is a big future in it, and I’ll work
so hard for you, Lucy! Perhaps, I ought to have
written to Mr. Hawthorn first, but I couldn’t until I
knew whether you could care for me a little. How I
will watch the mail for your answer! It nearly kills
me when I think that soon the ocean will be between
us, but I can stand anything if you send me word before
you go that there is any hope for me.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lucy—when I think how lovely you were to me
the night before you left here, I feel so happy and I do
love you so! I will keep your precious little handkerchief
forever, and ever, and ever. Do you remember
the moonlight on the river, and the way the lilies-of-the-valley
smelled? They are “lilies-of-the-valley”
to other people, but they are always “Lucy’s flowers”
to me. I enclose a spray to remind you of me when
you are far away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>I love you.</p>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:2em;'>Yours forever and ever,</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Victor.</p>

</div>

<p class='pindent'>Lucy wrote to Victor.</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Hans Crescent, London, June 9.</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:left;margin-left:0em;'><span class='sc'>Dear Victor:</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>I was so surprised by your letter, I never had an
<span class='it'>idea</span> you felt that way about me. I feel very much
touched, and I really do love you as if you were my
brother, but we are both <span class='it'>much</span> too young to talk of
anything else. For <span class='it'>goodness sake</span> don’t <span class='it'>think</span> of writing
to Father, for ever so long anyway, he and Mother
would <span class='it'>die</span>, as they still consider me a babe in arms.</p>

<p class='pindent'>You must excuse me for not answering your kind
letter before we sailed, but really I hadn’t a <span class='it'>minute</span>.
Any <span class='it'>woman</span> would understand the hubbub and confusion
of getting ready for a trip like this, the trips to
the <span class='it'>modiste’s</span> and milliner’s, as Mother and I both discovered
we literally hadn’t a stitch to our names, goodbyes
to friends, etc., etc., etc., though I don’t suppose a
<span class='it'>mere man</span> would!</p>

<p class='pindent'>We had a delightful trip, though at first I suffered
from <span class='it'>mal-du-pays</span> as I thought of home and friends—perhaps
one friend in particular, as I looked at the
lights on the water, and thought of the way the moon
shone on the river that last evening at the Leafs’. But
I resolved to be “awfully jolly,” as a Mr. Thompson
on board was always saying, and not shed a tear (I
didn’t quite keep <span class='it'>that</span> resolution!) and I made lots
of pleasant acquaintances.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Well, it was <span class='it'>awful</span> at first! The ship went up and
down so! But after two days it was lovely. I had
my new blue sailor costume, and we saw a whale and a
homeward bound vessel (I couldn’t keep back a little
sigh as I looked at <span class='it'>that</span>, I wonder if you can guess
why!) and the little whitecaps seemed to be frolicking
about the bow of our stately ship—indeed, the wind
blew so one day that the sailors had to climb the rigging
to reef sail. (Don’t I sound nautical?) I found
life at sea made everyone very hungry, and ready to do
full justice to the <span class='it'>four</span> meals they had on the ship,
breakfast at half past eight, lunch at twelve, dinner at
four, and supper at eight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There were some desperate flirtations on board, of
course. Everyone said Mr. Thompson ought to be
named Mr. <span class='it'>Spoony</span>, but he was full of fun and the
life of the party. Then there was Mr. Baron, a
languid young swell whom I had met at some balls in
New York, so of course he felt in duty bound to come
to life and honor me with his attention when he wasn’t
asleep, which was <span class='it'>generally</span>. His mother and sister
were with him, but Mrs. Baron was too overcome with
<span class='it'>mal-du-mer</span> to make her appearance, and I did <span class='it'>not</span>
care for Miss Baron, who was quite a flirt and apparently
did not care much for ladies’ society. I think
the gentlemen were much nicer than the ladies on the
ship; and, by the time the trip was over, we felt as if
we had known each other for years, for our vessel
was a slow one—as Mr. Thompson said, “An old
donkey could go faster.” But the days slipped by
like magic, although we were all so idle—indeed, the
gentlemen seemed to have left all thoughts of business
on shore, and the abandon of the ladies was <span class='it'>complete</span>.
Sometimes in the evenings we would have jolly games
of “Ruth and Jacob” with everybody joining in, and
sometimes just sit up in the bow of the boat, looking
at the foam and trying to look into the future. I
think my companions would have been surprised if
they had known where my thoughts were leading me,
Victor!</p>

<p class='pindent'>And here we are in very nice, though rather dark,
lodgings, in London! Just think! I can hardly believe
it. It looks very dirty, and I know I will be
terrified on the streets, and I suppose they will be full
of those dreadful people Dickens writes about. The
floor is going up and down, just like the deck of the
good ship “Hiawatha”—I hope it stops before this
evening, when Mother and I are going to the theatre
with Mr. Thompson to see Geneviéve Ward in a play
called, I <span class='it'>think</span>, “Forget-me-not.” Mr. Baron has been
here too, in lavender kid gloves, with a big bouquet
(<span class='it'>already!</span>) to ask us to the opera tomorrow night, to
hear Patti sing. Aren’t people kind, and ain’t it fun?</p>

<p class='pindent'>This is the longest letter I ever wrote in my life. I
put the spray of lilies-of-the-valley you sent me into
my prayer-book, and guess where it just <span class='it'>happened</span> to
fall—in the marriage service, where the woman says
“I will”!!!</p>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:2em;'>Your affectionate</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Lucy.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Hans Crescent, London, June 20.</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:left;margin-left:0em;'><span class='sc'>Dear Victor:</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>I love getting your letters, but <span class='it'>really</span> you mustn’t
write so often—you really, really mustn’t. Mother
said I must tell you.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor, how can you think that I could forget you?
You hurt me so when you say things like that. I think
of you all the time, and I only don’t tell you <span class='it'>what</span> I
think because I don’t want to make you vain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>I like London now, it is full of interesting sights, but
still I think it is pretty dirty and <span class='it'>old</span> looking. The
gold on the Albert Memorial <span class='it'>certainly</span> needs rubbing
up. We (Mother, Carter Thompson, Percy Baron,
and Ethel Baron, whom I like much better now) went
to Saint Paul’s, and got through our sight-seeing in
time to join in the choral service, with a <span class='it'>large</span> choir
of men and boys. <span class='it'>I</span> think it would be better if they
were given dusters and sent round to dust off the statues
which are in every corner. We also attended choral
service at Westminster Abbey, where the boys’ voices
were simply angelic but the <span class='it'>intoning</span> of the minister
almost put us to sleep—<span class='it'>much</span> too High Church in my
humble opinion. You will think we are very <span class='it'>pious</span>,
but we have been to other places of interest too,
Madame Tussaud’s Wax Works, where Carter simply
<span class='it'>convulsed</span> us by taking the doorkeeper of the Chamber
of Horrors for one of the figures, and the British
Museum. We spent this afternoon at the latter place,
but it will take <span class='it'>fully</span> another day to see <span class='it'>all</span> the wonders
it contains.</p>

<p class='pindent'>I don’t know what you mean, Victor, by saying you
feel as if I had forgotten you and home. I would <span class='it'>die</span>
if I thought I was going to spend my life over here. I
<span class='it'>don’t</span> think things here are <span class='it'>nearly</span> as nice as at home,
and the British public amuses me <span class='it'>very much</span>; for while
the gentlemen are very handsome, the ladies are dowdy
and dress about a year behind our fashions. Mother
and I haven’t seen <span class='it'>any</span> bustles as big as ours, and as
for the “æsthetes” they simply don’t wear any, and
look perfectly <span class='it'>ridiculous</span>, going around in slinky sage
green and brick red. The men æsthetes don’t cut their
hair, and the women apparently never comb theirs,
and they all sort of gasp at you. I was telling Carter
Thompson about a tea in an artist’s studio Mother and
I went to, and he said, “Oh, yes, they hug their knees
and stick their chins out and yearn towards a sunflower
or a blue china pot!” I nearly died laughing, as it
really was a <span class='it'>perfect</span> description! Carter pretended to
be astonished that we had anything to eat (we had
heaps of things, and the most <span class='it'>heavenly</span> strawberries,
and cream so thick you had to take it with a ladle).
He said, “I thought they always just lunched on a
lily.” He really is a perfect pickle. One afternoon
when, needless to say, it <span class='it'>rained</span>, we went to an exhibition
of Whistler’s paintings that he calls <span class='it'>nocturnes</span>;
and Carter made us all laugh by saying “In my humble
opinion <span class='it'>Daubs on Blotting Paper</span> would be a more
appropriate name!” I must say they were all Greek
to me, including a sort of insect he paints in the corner
of each one.</p>

<p class='pindent'>I am <span class='it'>longing</span> to ride in a hansom cab, but ladies
don’t do it, alas! Promise not to be shocked to death
and don’t breathe it to a soul, and I’ll tell you something
<span class='it'>awful</span> Ethel and I did with the boys. Mother
thought Mrs. Baron was going to matronize us, and
Mrs. Baron thought Mother was going to play propriety,
so we four went off for an afternoon of sight-seeing,
all alone! But that isn’t the worst, for we
decided to come home in an omnibus just for a lark,
but <span class='it'>all</span> the omnibuses going our way were full. We
hesitated, but the boys’ saying we didn’t <span class='it'>dare</span> ride on
top gave us courage; and we mounted amid the smiles
of the bystanders, who evidently thought we were
plucky little women to brave the criticisms of the
people. Don’t tell <span class='it'>a soul</span>, for if Mother ever heard a
word of it she’d lock me up on bread and water.</p>

<p class='pindent'>You’ll get tired of reading these long epistles.
Don’t forget me, Victor! I think of you every single
second.</p>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Lucy.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Hans Crescent, London, June 25.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor dear, I cried when I read your letter. I love
to have you feel that way about me, but I’m not worthy
of it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>I did wish for you yesterday. We went to Hampton
Court, which is very historical, but the flowers are
lovely. I saw a brown butterfly on a blue Canterbury
bell, they were just the colors of that old dress I was
wearing the first day we met, when you pretended you
thought some bows of ribbon on it were butterflies—do
you remember? But I know you don’t.</p>

<p class='pindent'>You needn’t be jealous of Mr. Thompson, for I
never was so disappointed in anyone in my <span class='it'>whole life</span>.
He is <span class='it'>not</span> a gentleman. Yesterday at Hampton Court
he made an excuse to get me away from the others, to
feed the swans, <span class='it'>he said</span>, and then proposed, apparently
taking it for granted that my answer would, <span class='it'>of course</span>,
be “yes.” When I said, which was true, that I was
completely taken by surprise, he said “Tell us another
one!” and that I <span class='it'>had led him on</span>! I never want to see
him again as long as I live, and I cried myself to sleep
last night.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Oh, Victor, I do miss you so! And I do <span class='it'>love you</span>!</p>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:2em;'>Your own</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Lucy.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Hans Crescent, London, June 26.</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:left;margin-left:0em;'><span class='sc'>Dear Victor:</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>I wrote you a dreadfully silly letter yesterday, which
you mustn’t pay any attention to. I was tired and
nervous, and got somewhat <span class='it'>hysterical</span>.</p>

<p class='pindent'>We leave tomorrow for Windermere. I am looking
forward very much to seeing the Lakes. We will be
travelling about so much that I’m afraid I won’t be
able to write very often, the days are so full and I
am so tired when evening comes. But even if I haven’t
time to write I will often be thinking of all my friends
at home.</p>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:2em;'>Ever your true friend,</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Lucy.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>London, June 26, Midnight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Oh, Victor, what made me post such a <span class='it'>horrible</span> letter
to you this morning? Can you ever forgive me and
love me again? I didn’t mean <span class='it'>one word</span> of it! Victor,
if you ever stop loving me I will die.</p>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:2em;'>Your heartbroken</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Lucy.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Old Waverly Hotel, Edinburgh, July 30.</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:left;margin-left:0em;'><span class='sc'>Dear Victor:</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>I’m so ashamed of not having written for such <span class='it'>ages</span>,
but we have been on the go so hard. If I wrote a
letter every time I <span class='it'>thought</span> of you, you would be
swamped, and anyway I <span class='it'>cannot</span> write about the beautiful
and quaint and wonderful things I see in a way
that will convey any idea of their loveliness. Sir
Walter Scott has described “Bonny Scotland” much
better than I can, and then so many things over here
are remarkable for nothing else than their oddness.
But how often I wish you were here to see everything
with me!</p>

<p class='pindent'>We are seeing things under the very <span class='it'>best</span> auspices,
as a <span class='it'>very</span> nice young man, the Honorable Ronald
Marcy-Prince, who is travelling with his tutor, has
practically attached himself to us, and is <span class='it'>most</span> kind
about escorting the Mater and me on sight-seeing expeditions
when the Pater prefers a nap (which I must
confess is <span class='it'>most</span> of the time.) The Honorable Ronald
is the son of Lord Burketter, if you please, so we have
the <span class='it'>greatest</span> attention wherever we go! I must say the
importance the English attach to a <span class='it'>title</span> amuses me
<span class='it'>intensely</span>!</p>

<p class='pindent'>Scotland is <span class='it'>adorable</span> but so misty it is hard to keep
your bangs looking like anything, and for the last two
days we have been <span class='it'>enjoying</span> (?) a pouring rain storm.
I am too sleepy to keep my eyes open any longer, but
will write a <span class='it'>real letter</span> soon.</p>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:2em;'>Your affectionate friend,</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Lucy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>P. S.—I enclose a gorse flower—it is <span class='it'>gloriously
beautiful</span> growing, golden yellow and a fragrance all
its own, but with lots of thorns. The Honorable
Ronald (ahem!) taught me a saying the English have
about it—“When the gorse is out of bloom, then
kissing’s out of fashion.” Can you guess why I am
sending you a piece?</p>

</div>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t7069'>XXI</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Victor, like Lucy’s ship, went up and down, as
his angel’s voice called to him from across the sea
that she was missing him so that she nearly <span class='it'>died</span>, or that
the gentlemen of Ireland were the most <span class='it'>awful</span> flatterers,
but somehow you couldn’t get angry. He was working
in the real estate office of Uncle Willie’s friend, Mr.
Vernon Johnson. Every morning he yawned down
the lane through the morning mists and boarded the
7.17 to Wilmington, carrying a lawyer’s green bag
that May had made for him, that held three soda
biscuits with ham inside them, three with apple jelly,
an orange or a pear, and a volume of Zola in French
to read on the train, more to impress his fellow
travellers than for his own enjoyment.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He sat at his desk and licked stamps, led prospective
customers to small brick houses, and swept out the
office when the janitor was drunk, through a pink and
gold and forget-me-not blue haze—a rainbow dream of
Lucy. Oh, he would think, yawning, gazing through
the window, he would be rich some day! Lucy, riding
behind prancing, perfectly matched horses and a perfectly
matched coachman and footman in livery, and
simply covered with rubies and pearls, would drive
down to the office every afternoon to take him home.
And he saw her more clearly than he saw the guttersnipe
sparrows, cellar doors, and ash-cans his eyes were
resting on. Some day! At present his salary was
thirty dollars a month.</p>

<p class='pindent'>All his daily life was a blur, a confused murmur,
through which came sweet and clear Lucy’s messages
to the effect that Holland was very flat and full of
windmills, that the cathedral at Cologne was too
magnificent for description, that at the table d’hotes
of Holland and Germany <span class='it'>they helped you to ice-cream
twice</span>, that the Rhine was too beautiful for description,
that thousands of plum trees filled the orchards in
Prussia, but there seemed to be more apples in Bavaria,
that peasants were quaint, that Milan was fascinating,
that the pension at Naples had been horrid but very
<span class='it'>Italian</span>, that Rome was simply beyond words, that
there were mountains in Switzerland and laces in
Brussels, and that the men of Germany, Italy, Switzerland
and Belgium stared dreadfully.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We met a charming young American, named Mr.
Duncan, in Amsterdam, full of fun but I’m afraid
rather <span class='it'>fast</span>,” wrote Lucy, “He is always saying the
funniest things. The other day he said ‘Did you ever
notice that nearly everything here begins or ends with
<span class='it'>dam</span>? I must say it sounds <span class='it'>rather</span> profane!’ I don’t
suppose it was quite the thing to say before a <span class='it'>lady</span>, but
he said it with such a solemn face I simply couldn’t
help bursting out laughing!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Down went Victor’s heart.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Venice is <span class='it'>absolutely</span> beyond the powers of my
feeble pen. Mother, Father, and I went out in a
gondola in the moonlight last night, and Father teased
me for moping. The tears <span class='it'>were</span> very near, though I
didn’t tell him <span class='it'>why</span>—that I simply couldn’t <span class='it'>bear</span> being
in <span class='it'>Venice</span>, in the <span class='it'>moonlight</span>, without you!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Up flew his heart like a bird in the sky.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Everywhere in Italy there are the most <span class='it'>perfect</span>
flowers for sale on the streets, and Mr. Duncan, who
just <span class='it'>happened</span> to turn up in Florence, simply <span class='it'>filled</span> our
rooms with them, and sent me a bunch of <span class='it'>orange
blossoms</span>, if you please, which I thought rather <span class='it'>saucy</span>
to say the least!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Down went his heart like a stone thrown into the
sea.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And longer and longer grew the silences between.
But just as Victor would begin to emerge from unhappiness
and hurt pride into freedom, she would call
him back, lovingly and sweetly, to her side.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor! Here we are in <span class='it'>la Belle</span> France! <span class='it'>Paris</span>—I
can’t believe it. It is all my fancy painted it and
<span class='it'>much</span>, <span class='it'>much</span> more, such a whirl, the <span class='it'>darlingest</span> dresses,
though I can’t expect your highness to be interested in
<span class='it'>them</span>, such gloves, such bonbons! Then the Opera,
which is <span class='it'>divine</span>, I nearly cried my eyes out at ‘Faust’
the other night, and driving in the Bois, and all
Mamma’s friends being <span class='it'>hospitality itself</span> to us. And
yet I am homesick—can you guess why?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then a long, long silence, no answer to all his letters,
and just as he was getting bitter, sure she had forgotten
him, came her photograph from Paul Delahaye in the
Rue Lafitte, tinted to show faint pink cheeks and deep
blue eyes. Darling little Lucy, so like herself, so unchanged,
that he nearly died of love and happiness—Lucy
with the biggest bustle in the world, and the
sweetest expression, her head a little to one side as if
she were listening to the voices of the other angels.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was too precious to leave out for the girls to see
every time they made his bed and filled his pitcher.
He kissed it and hid it in a bureau-drawer under his
silk muffler, a birthday present from Aunt Priscilla.
There were other treasures there, all speaking to him
of Lucy—bits of dried vegetation, a slipper bow, a
lace pocket-handkerchief, an embossed picture of
clasped hands and forget-me-nots from a Christmas
cracker, and all her letters.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then, two years after she had sailed away, and
just before she was to sail for home, another letter
came.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There it lay on the hall table, white as a feather
from an angel’s wing. He couldn’t even wait until he
got it upstairs to his room. He tore it open and read:</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Rue d’Alger, Paris, June 14.</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:left;margin-left:0em;'><span class='sc'>Dear Victor</span>:</p>

<p class='pindent'>I hate to write this letter, as I am so afraid it will
hurt you, but I couldn’t bear to have you hear from
anyone but me of my engagement. I am going to
marry Count René de la Villeblanche, the son of one
of Mamma’s great friends, and I am very happy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>You and I were only children, weren’t we, Victor?
I realize that now. But I shall always think of our
friendship as one of the sweetest things in my life, and
I will be wishing your happiness wherever you are
and whatever you do. It is sad to say <span class='it'>adieu</span> to all the
old times, and I hope you won’t quite forget</p>

<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:2em;'>Your true friend,</p>
<p class='line0' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>Lucy Hawthorn.</p>

</div>

<p class='pindent'>“Is that you, Victor?” asked Maggie, coming up
from the cellar, where she had been getting a jar of
peach preserves for supper. “There’s a letter for you——oh,
you found it. Hurry up if you want to wash
your hands, supper’s nearly ready.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor started upstairs. “Oh, by the way,” he called
over his shoulders, “Lucy’s going to marry a French
count——” and his voice suddenly broke into a loud
sound, half squawk, half hiccup.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie ran up the stairs after him. “Why, I
thought she was engaged to you!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“So did I—my mistake, evidently.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But <span class='it'>Victor</span>——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Maggie!” And he turned his head away,
pressing it against the wall, but she could see that he
was crying, and she answered his pain out of the depths
of her own.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, my poor little brother, I know!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Nobody knows! Nobody <span class='it'>can</span> know——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sit down on the stairs a minute—no, the girls
won’t come in till I call them, they’re picking currants
in the truck patch. Here, take mine, it’s clean, for a
wonder——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wish I was dead.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The nasty little thing—I’d like to wring her neck!”
Maggie thought to herself, her arm tight around his
shaking shoulders, and added aloud:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t, Victor, don’t, she isn’t worth it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He looked at her tragically through red eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You mustn’t say a word against Lucy, Maggie. It
isn’t her fault—I must have failed her some way——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s her mother’s doing, I bet you anything.
French count! French no-account more likely.
Ambitious old schemer! I never could bear that
woman!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Oh, how could she help him? A passion of pity
flooded her. How could she comfort her little brother?</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I only want her to be happy.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And in the dark night of his unhappiness one little
star came out and shone faintly—he couldn’t help
knowing that he was “taking it” wonderfully.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s the only thing,” Maggie said, her voice
gritty with effort. “Don’t let love turn into bitterness.
And pity Lucy because she’s hurt you—you’ve
only been hurt, it won’t be so hard for you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Victor, still shaking with sobs, did not hear her,
for he was looking at Lucy at the end of a vista of
years, a tragic figure saying to him through her tears:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ah Victor! If only——”</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t7286'>XXII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Ridiculous to feel positively light-headed with
high spirits when one is in the middle thirties—Maggie
couldn’t understand it. Yet that was how she
did feel. She wanted to go bounding up into the sky,
like a balloon, to sing, shout at the top of her lungs,
laugh, not just a little, but loud, with her head back
and her mouth wide open. What had gotten into her?
She hadn’t felt like this for heaven knew how many
years. It was the spring, perhaps. Just the first beginning
of spring, the soft boundless sky, the flowing
wakening air, the sudden, sweet warmth of the sun,
the smell of everything, that made her want to laugh
and cry at the same time, not gently or sentimentally,
but as hard as she could. Spring is not gentle or
sentimental, for all its pretty pink and white cloak of
blossoming boughs. The wet, new green in the woods,
intense in the sunlight, is as fierce as a sword-thrust,
flowers in the grass are as awful as stars in the sky.
Spring is terrible and divine, tearing the earth wide
open, tearing the children of earth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She really wanted to go to the wedding in Wilmington—not
because Victor was going to be an usher,
but just because she was bursting for some fun. She
hadn’t anything fit to wear, but never mind—her
black silk covered her, and nobody would be looking
at her, anyway.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But after she put it on, it looked so poky and old-lady
that she cut some geraniums as bright as wet,
scarlet paint, and a velvet leaf, to put in her belt. She
didn’t care if it was silly, and her cape would cover
them up on the train. And whisking around, getting
tea and bread and butter and cottage-cheese, for they
didn’t need much supper with a wedding reception to
look forward to, she sang a song she hadn’t thought of
for ever so long.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘I feel, I feel, I feel,</p>
<p class='line0'>I feel like a morning star!</p>
<p class='line0'>I feel, I feel, I feel,</p>
<p class='line0'>I feel like a morning star!</p>
<p class='line0'>Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!</p>
<p class='line0'>Shoo fly! Don’t bother me——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Squeak, squeak, squeak, went the pump-handle, out
gushed the water. Clash! went the kettle cover.
Maggie took a few dance steps on the kitchen floor.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!’</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“Ma-ay! Plenty of extra hot water, if you want
any! Get-<span class='it'>tout</span>, kitty, or I’ll step on you!</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!</p>
<p class='line0'>For I belong to Company G!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie! I’ve ripped under my arm!” That was
Lily’s wail.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Wait a minute—I’ll come and sew you up.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!</p>
<p class='line0'>Shoo fly——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>May was a picture in dark red, so much handwork
that it made your eyes ache to think of it, and with
Mamma’s garnet necklace. In the soft afternoon light
you couldn’t see the fine lines that had come around
her mouth and eyes. Lily was in snuff color, with dark
blue velvet bows. It was her best dress. She hadn’t
worn it for months, and it had become ever so much
too tight. She couldn’t take a long breath, she couldn’t
lift her arms. Her nose was pink, and tears stood in
her eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodness, Lily! This silk gives with every stitch
I take. Stop breathing—turn around to the light—turn
round. Oh, Lily! I do believe you’ve got a big
spot on the front——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I just can’t go,” Lily quavered.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let me think——” And she tried to frown and
think about poor fat Lily, but she began to smile,
to hum:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘I feel, I feel, I feel——’</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>Look—you can take Mamma’s lace shawl, it’ll hide
everything if you’re just a little bit careful.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They had put on their best bustles that had been
Christmas presents from Aunt Priscilla. For every day
May wore a home-made horsehair pad, and Maggie
and Lily rolls of soft paper. These best ones were so
large and elaborate that they made the sisters feel
fashionable but apprehensive. Lily’s was forever
getting to one side, and when it came to sitting down
gracefully, they all had their bad moments.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They walked down the lane to the station, holding
their skirts well up out of the spring mud. Their
party slippers, and Cousin Jennie Blodgett’s Christmas
present gloves still folded in yellow tissue paper, were
in bags that swung from their arms, and white zephyr
nubias covered their careful coiffures.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mercy, this mud is awful—go slowly, girls, we
have heaps of time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lily, did you—look out, don’t catch your cloud
on those twigs. Wait a minute—hold still, I’ll get it
off—there! Did you remember to put kitty out?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just imagine how the bride must be feeling by now—look,
that little patch of grass is ever so green!”</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!</p>
<p class='line0'>Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“What’s got into you, Maggie? Hold your skirt
up higher in the back.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, girls, <span class='it'>smell that spring smell</span>!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And, as they stepped out of the Wilmington station,
the big warm drops began to fall, making dark stars on
the pavement. Great, warm, wet splashes of spring
rain, falling on her face. Maggie was happy enough
to cry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll take a cab.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have you enough with you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, it’s all right. We can’t walk in the rain in
our silks, and with our hair and everything.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They changed into their slippers and pulled on their
white gloves, rumbling up Market Street.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Look—it’s raining hard now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“May, how much do you think I ought to fee the
driver?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Girls! <span class='it'>Look</span> at the line of carriages, if you please!
Did you ever?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ten cents is <span class='it'>plenty</span>.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know, but it’s so wet, and he looked sort of
shabby.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“See, they have a red carpet out—I’m glad we
changed into our slippers, they won’t get a bit wet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie shoved some money into the driver’s hand
and hurried after the others. May need never know
how much it was, and anyway it was her own egg-money.
He looked so forlorn, and his nose was so
red, with a little drop trembling from it. She wanted
everyone to be happy tonight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then the church, and Victor. Lily pretended
it was his wedding, and the idea melted her into tears.
Where was her handkerchief? She must have brought
one——</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yessum.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t find my handkerchief——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>People smiled at each other with knowing little
nods. They understood all about it, whatever it was.
The organ warbled high and tremulous. Silk rustled
past as the ushers towed lady after lady up the aisle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What, May?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The lilies are too sweet—they make me feel faint.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor looks nice, doesn’t he? His coat’s just a
teeny bit too big, but don’t ever tell him so.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There go the Hollys—I should think she’d be just
about dead with that sealskin sacque on a night like
this, but let’s be stylish or die. I guess they must have
driven in, they weren’t on the train.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’re late—the bride is, I mean. I wonder if
anything could have happened.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The organ rumbled so that Maggie couldn’t hear the
rain, but she could feel it falling on her heart, life-giving
and warm.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here they come!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The organ agreed. Ta <span class='it'>dar</span>dy <span class='it'>da</span>! Ta <span class='it'>dar</span>dy <span class='it'>da</span>!
The river of white silk and lace, pink sashes, and black
coats, the river of life, flowed up the aisle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hollys gave them a lift to the reception; and,
as Mrs. Holly wanted to stop at her sister’s on the
way, just for half a second, they were half an hour
late. And then in the room where they took off their
wraps Maggie saw a line of white petticoat showing
under Lily’s skirt, and had to stop for that.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Walk off, Lily—nobody’s going to notice—walk
off a little way—here, back up.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Ouch</span>, Maggie!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, did I run it into you? You’re all right now.
Come on, girls!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>For two pins she’d slide down the banisters!
Clatter, scream, a little thread of “Il Bacio” as they
pushed slowly past the orchestra under the stairs.
May talked to her sisters vivaciously, as if she had just
been introduced to them, but her eyes wandered
anxiously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What a lovely wedding!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Doesn’t the bride look sweet?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>What a lovely wedding! Doesn’t the bride look
sweet? What a lovely wedding! Doesn’t the bride
look sweet?</p>

<p class='pindent'>May had a man now, and was shrieking at him
through the racket. Maggie and Lily were carried on
by the tide.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“See, Lily, how nice our present looks.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They hadn’t been able to afford anything new.
There were the pair of high-shouldered dark blue vases
with the gold polka-dots and white stomachers painted
with seaweed and shells, that had stood on the dining-room
mantelpiece practically forever. How surprised
they must be at their new surroundings, a blue velvet
case of pearl-handled fish knives on one side, pink cake-plates
with gold stippling on the other, and an onyx
clock with a bronze Minerva behind them. It seemed
almost disloyal to go away and leave them there—such
old friends.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily found a nice little corner where she was hidden
away and didn’t have to bother about her bustle or her
petticoat or keeping her shawl just so. When the
colored waiter thrust the plate into her hands, she tried
to explain that she had already had one supper, but he
hurried away without paying any attention. So she
ate the broiled oysters and chicken salad lingeringly,
shedding a sentimental tear now and then when the
violin, close by her ear, grew extra piercing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie was just going to dive in after her when
Mrs. Craig backed her against a palm.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Miss Campion! Well! I haven’t seen you,
since dear knows when—how are you? Wasn’t it a
pretty wedding? And dear little Annie made such a
sweet bride, didn’t she? Have you had your supper?
I thought the mayonnaise was sort of <span class='it'>poor</span>, didn’t you?
But then I’m fussy about mayonnaise, I guess, at least
so they always tell me—and then there’s always so
much celery in caterer’s chicken salad—more of everything
than chicken. I said to Mr. Craig, I guess the
chicken this salad was made of had a mother that
mooed and had horns and four legs—look! That
dress with the orange trimmings—someone ought to
tell her how she looks, really it would be kinder. Fat
people ought to be careful what they wear.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So they ought, thought Maggie, looking at Mrs.
Craig’s round little body almost bursting out of its rose-colored
silk. Just like a watermelon, and those jet
buttons were the watermelon seeds.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘I feel, I feel, I feel,</p>
<p class='line0'>I feel like a morning star——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Oh, she must get that out of her head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Frank! Coo-hoo! Frank! You’ve met my husband,
haven’t you, Miss Campion? Frank, I could eat
another plate of ice-cream if I was sufficiently urged,
couldn’t you, Miss Campion? <span class='it'>Couldn’t</span> you? <span class='it'>Frank!</span>
Miss Campion says she couldn’t. Just one, dear. Just
one. <span class='it'>Frank!</span> Unless you want one yourself! Have
you seen the presents? Well, to tell you the <span class='it'>honest</span>
truth I was surprised they weren’t handsomer—oh,
stop that waiter—waiter! Try this punch, I think
there’s champagne in it——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie moved her head away from the palm sticking
into the back of her neck. Mercy, how the woman
buzzed!</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“I was looking at the presents with Edward Post
and his wife, and he was saying that the worst of
getting married——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The glass of punch leapt on Maggie’s plate.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Edward——?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Edward Post. Didn’t you know him when he
lived with the Allens, years ago, before he went to
South America? You must have, they lived so near
you. Why, yes, seems to me I’ve heard he was quite
a beau of yours, haven’t I? Didn’t you see him and
his wife this evening?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie set down her chattering glass and plate on
the corner of the mantelpiece. She was shivering all
over. Mrs. Craig’s face floated towards her, burst
into splinters of brightness and blackness. She heard
her own voice say, high and unfamiliar, an affected
society voice:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, I didn’t see him. In fact, I hadn’t heard he
was married.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And she laughed nervously, politely, leaning against
the wall to keep from falling.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes, indeed, very much so, he has been for two
years. In fact he married a distant connection of Mr.
Craig’s—<span class='it'>too</span> bad you didn’t meet her, but they left
very early. Of course, they don’t live here, but he
comes on sometimes on business, I understand—not
that Mr. Craig and myself see much of them; just between
you and me I think success has turned his head a
little. She had a <span class='it'>very</span> pretty dress on, a pink corded
silk, not exactly <span class='it'>pink</span>, more <span class='it'>peach</span>—look! Will you
<span class='it'>look</span> at Mr. Craig! He’s lost me completely—look at
that <span class='it'>hopeless</span> expression. See, he doesn’t see us at all!
Frank! Oh, Frank, honey—I’ll just have to chase
after him——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie went upstairs to the bedroom, empty except
for heaps of cloaks, drifts of nubias, foot-hills of
storm-boots, and huddled in a dark corner. Her
geraniums fell from her belt and lay on the floor beside
her, as red as a pool of blood. She felt as if she
were bleeding to death. She had never really said
goodbye in her heart to Edward. But now she knew
that the footsteps she had listened to for so long would
never reach her.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘Goodnight, ladies! I’m going to leave you
now!’ ”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t feel a bit sleepy. Didn’t Victor look wonderful?
I don’t think it’s prejudice, I think he really
<span class='it'>was</span> far and away the best looking usher, don’t you?
Just imagine the way we’ll be feeling when he’s the
bridegroom!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is he coming home or spending the night in town?
Well, I’ll leave out some sponge-cake and milk anyway.
Goodnight.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodnight.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lily, did you see to kitty?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Someone stood all over my slippers—look, one
bow’s lost!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodnight, I guess I am sleepy after all. Oh, I
brought home some wedding-cake to dream on—want
some, May? Maggie! Want some wedding-cake to
dream on?”</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t7698'>XXIII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>While we still feel that we are just entering the
sea we look back, and how far we have come!
How far away are the seashells and sandcastles of
childhood. We can see them, but we can’t go back to
them. No matter how tired or frightened we are, we
have to swim on out to sea.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Forty-one years old! Maggie couldn’t believe it.
She didn’t feel forty-one a bit! Of course, she was
often tired now—she, who had never been tired. But
she got up so early and went so hard all day. And
then sometimes she didn’t sleep very well, but that
was when she let herself think of Edward.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Forty-one! Mamma had only been forty-two when
she died—impossible to be almost as old as Mamma,
almost disrespectful. And she couldn’t feel grown-up
inside her—or did older people have these young
feelings—were they shy, not quite sure of themselves,
glowing with love at a kindness, delighted with something
pretty to wear or something good to eat, and
sometimes wanting more than anything to stick out
their tongues and make faces—and did they just hide
them under dark clothes and quiet ways?</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Campions were so poor that they were all trying
to earn a little extra money. Twice a week Maggie
drove in to The Woman’s Exchange with her cakes
and May’s lampshades and little crêpe paper baskets
to hold candies or ice-cream. Such pretty baskets,
pale violet with purple paper violets tied with a bow
of baby ribbon to the handle, pale green with buttercups,
and pink with something charming, though none
of them quite knew what. Or sometimes the baskets
were like big cabbage roses. When there was a special
order Maggie would help. Lily longed to help too,
but her clumsy fingers tore the thin tissue paper and
dropped glue on May’s exquisite petals, and her violets
weren’t violets, but only crumpled balls, good for
nothing but for the kitten to pat across the room and
pounce on. So she read aloud to them while they
worked, “Ships That Pass in The Night” and “Sweet
Bells Out of Tune,” nearly yawning her head off, and
driving them wild, by pausing every now and then to
read ahead to herself a little, just to see what was
going to happen.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She was trying to earn something, too, by giving
music lessons. She wasn’t very accurate, but her four
pupils were all beginners, and she could play over their
pieces, “Joy and Frolic Galop,” “The Little Penitent,”
“The Brooklet,” or “Dolly’s Funeral,” with a great
deal of ripple and expression. She had Sissie and
Mary Holly, Stewy Grant’s little boy, and Miss
Taylor, the postmaster’s daughter; and most of the
lesson times were taken up in cozy chats, telling her
troubles, offering freshly baked cookies and having
one or two herself, or taking her pupils into the garden
to see Maggie’s Oriental poppies.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Music seems to mean so much to me!” Lily often
said, and she was a trifle complacent at not being able
to listen without tears to “Ten thousand times ten
thousand,” that had been sung at Mamma’s funeral.
“It’s funny, music always makes me feel like praying.”
But everything made Lily feel like praying. Her bedtime
prayers were so long and elaborate that, over and
over again, she fell asleep in the midst of them, waking
up later cold and stiff and drenched with moonlight.
She had become very High Church, and while
she hadn’t quite the courage to call Mr. Nelson “Father
Nelson,” especially as he had a large family, her genuflections,
and crossings, and flopping down on her
knees in the middle of the Nicene Creed, provided
much material for conversation at the Sunday dinner
tables of the rest of the congregation. “Regular
Roman Catholic!” was the general opinion. It was a
dreadful nuisance having to have an egg or sardines
for her on Fridays, and Maggie was always forgetting.
Once they had had chicken salad for Friday supper,
and Lily hadn’t been able to keep from crying.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She thought of Lord Jesus so much, Gentle Jesus,
who had loved her—and all mankind, of course—so
much that he had died for her; and thinking of him her
blue eyes swam with tears, her whole body seemed to
melt into tears, tender and warm as spring rain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We must try to please our dear Lord Jesus Christ,
children, mustn’t we?” she would say to her Sunday
school class, and the little boys would look back at
her solemnly from above ruffled collars and butterfly
bows, the little girls from under hats like saucers holding
cones of ice-cream, and agree politely; “Yes, Miss
Lily.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She did try so hard to please him, and live the
spiritual life. Arranging the bouquets in Grandmother’s
brass altar vases, she couldn’t help feeling
sometimes, when there were strangers who had come
early, that they might be whispering, as she made the
flowers spray out or knelt before the altar, touched by
the sunlight falling through the amber glass, “What a
spiritual face! Who is she?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her Sunday school class! Her altar flowers! She
was bursting with enthusiasm at first; and, when they
got to be dreadful bores, she wouldn’t admit it even
to herself. For if they were gone what would be left?</p>

<p class='pindent'>For a little while she thought Mr. Marshall would
be left. She met him at Hessie Farley’s Valentine
euchre party, in a romantic setting of red cardboard
hearts, heart-shaped sandwiches, heart-shaped cakes
with beetroot-reddened icing, and large crimson hearts
of geranium blossoms. Mrs. Farley talked for a year
about how much trouble it had all been. He was a
rather wooden gentleman, but Lily garlanded him with
the vine leaves of her imagination, and at parting he
humorously offered her his score-card heart, and asked
if he might call some Saturday evening.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Most evenings my rule is early to bed—‘early to
bed, early to rise,’ you know! But on Sundays I sleep
an hour later in the morning, so I sit up an hour later
on Saturday nights,” he explained.</p>

<p class='pindent'>So Lily, all in a flutter, took to running across the
road to see old Mrs. Clark on Saturday evenings, hoping
that Mr. Marshall would come to call.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Good evening, Miss Campion. Is Miss Lily in?</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Good evening, Mr. Marshall. Excuse me a moment
and I’ll call my sister—she’s just across the road.
She goes so often to see a poor old neighbor.</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'><span class='it'>And Mr. Marshall would think reverently</span>, “<span class='it'>Sweet
Saint Charity!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She tried to open doors into a world of wonders for
Mrs. Clark.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You know in India there’s a wonderful building
called the Taj Mahal, all carved out of marble so that
it looks as fine as lace, that an Indian rajah built in
memory of his wife.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Patience guide me! Squaws they call them, don’t
they? My nephew Will’s wife sent me a picture last
week from the World’s Fair, and it said on it ‘Chief
Big Crow and his squaw Little Cloud.’ ”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But this is a different kind of Indian, Mrs. Clark—Indians
that live in <span class='it'>India</span>, way across the ocean, and
ride around on elephants——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, different kind or not, I wouldn’t trust ’em.
Scalp you as soon as look at you, I’ve always heard
tell.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And all the time Lily was listening for the click of
the gate, steps on the path, Maggie’s breathless voice
saying, “Lily! Mr. Marshall’s over at the house!”
But he never came, and it just let her in for a tiresome
custom, for what could she do when Mrs. Clark greeted
her with, “I was just settin’ here in the dark feelin’
so lonesome, and hopin’ my uttermost best that you’d
come!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Every Saturday night Lily carried a bunch of
flowers to Mrs. Clark, so that Mr. Clark’s grave, conveniently
next to the Methodist Church, might be
admired on Sunday. Suppose, just suppose, that Mr.
Marshall arrived some evening as she came down the
drive under the shadowy pines, her arms full of
feathered tulips—or coppery snapdragon and creamy
roses, as time went on—or asters—chrysanthemums—tulips——</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Where are you taking your armful of flowers?</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>I’m just running across the road—I take them every
week to a poor old neighbor, to put on her husband’s
grave.</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'><span class='it'>And he would say, a note of reverence stealing into
his voice</span>:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Sweet Saint Charity!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Clark looked critically at each Saturday’s
offering. She had a reputation to keep up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Thank you kindly. Them white roses last week
was as beautiful as if they’d been artificial—I suppose
they’re all gone? Everybody always admires poor
Lewis’s grave, it has the handsomest bouquets of any
in the graveyard.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The old show-off!” Maggie exclaimed crossly,
picking her prettiest roses for the Saturday bouquet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Everybody came to The Maples for flowers,
Maggie complained; but she was proud, too. Taking
care of the garden used up all the time she had left
from cooking and the house. Just picking the sweetpeas
took hours, although all three of them picked.
It was such hot work, picking out there in the truck
patch, remembering to snip off old blossoms and seedpods,
and not pick sprays with buds. Lily cheated
sometimes, and May relieved the monotony by spelling
out the names of men she knew—a flower to a letter.
<span class='it'>A</span>, <span class='it'>b</span>, <span class='it'>c</span>, three sweetpeas, then eight sweetpeas for <span class='it'>h</span>,
then one for <span class='it'>a</span>, and so on, to spell “Charles Bradley,”
or some other man. She pretended it was a little charm
that would make them think of her lovingly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were all so bored with the work of picking and
arranging, and yet complacent about it, for people
were always saying to them, “<span class='it'>Nobody</span> has such sweetpeas
as yours!” The milkpails full of water waited
among the little green windfalls under the apple trees
by the edge of the truck patch. Great milkpails full
of sweetpeas, shading from white to palest pink
through to almost black, and the special milkpail for
the ones from light violet to deep purple. May would
bury her face in them, kissing them, pouring out her
love on them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She had so much love to give, she longed for so
much love. And the lonely years were flowing past so
quickly. As she covered the enormous lampshade
frames, with puffed and flounced silk, lace petticoats,
and bunches of artificial flowers caught by ribbon
bows, all of her but the little bit of her brain that
directed her flashing fingers was lost in a dream of
love. She was with her lover, cheek to cheek they
spoke to each other in low and broken voices, their
fingers laced together——</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, my darling, where are you? Come to me, save
me, before it’s too late!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I <span class='it'>am</span> young!” she cried to herself. “Are you?”
her mirror answered as she sat before it trying her hair
in different ways until late, late into the night.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There were little lines on her face—yes, but only in
a strong light. And what had become of the lovely
warm rose of her cheeks? Well, anyone might be pale.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In one of the fashion magazines Aunt Priscilla lent
them, were directions for making a collarette of pale
pink chiffon. The magazine said it would cast a
youthful and becoming glow. There was plenty of
crumpled pink chiffon in the piece box, from the front
of an evening dress Maggie had worn when she was
engaged to Edward, and some odds and ends of ecru
lace for trimming. It tied with broad satin ribbon—she
bought that. She had to buy something <span class='it'>sometimes</span>,
she told herself defiantly. Hers was prettier
than the one in the magazine. And yet, when it was
done, and she looked at herself in the glass, she burst
into tears. What was the use?</p>

<p class='pindent'>But she <span class='it'>would</span> be young. You weren’t old just
because you’d lost your color and looked rather tired.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In a Philadelphia shop where no one would know
her, she bought a box of rouge, asking for it in such a
low voice that she had to repeat the dreadful word.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“For amateur theatricals,” she told the shopgirl
haughtily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She put a little on when she dressed to go into
Wilmington to a subscription dance with Victor, who
was always going to dances. Generally he went to
dinners before, but this time he offered to take the
girls in. Maggie only laughed, and Lily was
frightened at the idea, but May wanted to go.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her dress was pretty, she knew that, with gold-colored
dots all over the white net skirt, and big
balloon sleeves of gold-colored velvet, and she had
brand new bronze slippers with high heels and tiny
pointed toes in her slipper-bag. She and Victor had
to run for the train along the frozen ruts, their breath
puffing out, turning to little white clouds. Fun to
run, as if you were a little girl again!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This air—like champagne—It makes me feel—as
if I were—fizzing——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just in time! Here she comes!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Whoo!</span> My side! I never—saw—<span class='it'>whoo!</span>—such
bright stars!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the train the windows were all steamy. Her
cheeks were glowing, her eyes felt big and shining.
People were looking at her. Victor began to whistle
“Ever of Thee” under his breath, and her feet danced
a tiny waltz under her skirt. She could see herself
entering the ball-room, pausing a moment, unconscious
of the sensation she was making. The orchestra was
playing “Ever of Thee,” and the music caught her up,
she danced on its waves light as sun-gilded foam on
the waves of the sea.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Gad, what a narrow escape! I almost didn’t come
tonight—and I might never have met you!</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Your eyes are as deep as pools in a dark forest—I
am drowning in them.</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'><span class='it'>Oh!</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>He <span class='it'>might</span> be there, whoever he was, wonderful,
different from all the world, knowing at a glance how
different she was, too.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But in the dressing-room, where the débutantes were
pulling on their gloves, pinning great puddings of
violets on to themselves (and they needed a great deal
of anchoring) and looking over their shoulders at the
new glory of their trains, she felt old and cold. Just
the way they stopped pushing each other aside from
the pier-glass, and made way for her, just their polite
changed voices when they spoke to her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor was kind—she didn’t want him to be. She
danced three times, Victor, Raymond Line, a mature
demure hop with old Judge Kelsey; and then talked
brightly, feverishly to Mrs. Kelsey through one dance—two
dances—three dances——</p>

<p class='pindent'>Holding up her train and looking at it with a
worried little frown, she hurried from the ball-room.
It was torture to go through the ranks of “stags,” with
their glove-fitting, white waistcoats, their chins
propped up by their high collars, their hair parted in
the middle and plastered down on either side.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not deserting us, Miss Campion?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, no, indeed, but a stitch in time, you know!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the dressing-room she peeled off her gloves, took
off a slipper and put it on again, looked in the mirror
and touched her hair, drew out a hair-pin and pushed
it in, touched her puffed sleeves, pulled out Mamma’s
lace wedding handkerchief and just touched it to her
nose, tucked it away. If only the colored maid hadn’t
stood there, looking at her, she could have cried a little
and felt better. But she couldn’t stay in the dressing-room
all night. Humming a waltz tune she drew her
gloves on slowly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Two girls burst in, warm, tingling, with melted
stars in their eyes, and moist bright cheeks. They
really did need repairs! One’s hair was coming down,
and the other had torn off yards of flounce.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My <span class='it'>dear</span>! <span class='it'>Every</span> waltz with J.!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I <span class='it'>didn’t</span>! Well, anyway, <span class='it'>you</span> needn’t talk! Oh,
that awful barn dance! I haven’t a hair-pin left, and
I look like a freak!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It wrecks one’s coiffure, doesn’t it?” said May
eagerly, and one girl stared at her, while the other,
who knew her, replied politely:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, indeed, Miss Campion.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then in her natural voice, a voice quivering
with joy, singing with the knowledge of her prettiness,
her white satin gown, her dance-card cram-jam full,
and J. waiting for her, she cried to her friend:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My dear! Look at the way these flowers have
stained my new dress, if you please! I’m simply
broken-hearted!”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie slept lightly, dozing, waking, until she was
sure “the children” were safely home. And after she
heard their doors shut, she began to wonder if they had
remembered to put out the hall lamp. Oh, it was
much too cold to get up! But still, she wouldn’t be
able to go to sleep until she was sure.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the hall she thought she heard the sound of sobbing
from May’s room, but, when she called softly
through the crack of the door, “May! Are you all
right?” there was silence. She must have heard the
wind that had risen and was crying around the house.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Still, it was a relief to hear from May next morning
that she had had a beautiful time, when Maggie
brought her breakfast up to her to have in bed, late,
for a treat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you have a good time?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Wonderful! Heavenly music, and the floor was
divine.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who did you have for partners? Anyone I
know?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I-don’t-believe so. Most of them were strangers.
Everyone’s wearing things in their hair, Maggie—I
was glad I wore my gold lace butterfly, though it was
very modest and meek compared to the diamond stars
and crescents and things most of them had. Mrs.
Kelsey had gold antennæ with diamond dangles on
the tips.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mrs. Kelsey with antennæ!” cried Maggie scornfully.
“She’s a right hefty butterfly, is all <span class='it'>I</span> have to
say. Didn’t everyone think your dress was pretty?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess so.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Didn’t you dance with <span class='it'>any</span>one I know?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Judge Kelsey and Raymond Line, but they weren’t
exactly <span class='it'>thrilling</span>. Here’s my card, but they’re mostly
initials.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And there it was, as full as could be, every waltz
and barn dance and <span class='it'>pas de quatre</span> filled in by May
herself with different handwritings.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My, you must have had fun! Victor said you were
evidently having a violent flirtation in some cozy
corner, he hardly saw you all evening except at supper.
Was it good? What did they have? I ought to be
down making doughnuts.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, broiled oysters and salad—<span class='it'>you</span> know.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“May Campion! Who’s A. J.? <span class='it'>Every</span> waltz with
A. J.! ‘Love’s Kiss,’ A. J., ‘<span class='it'>Je T’Aime</span>,’ A. J., ‘<span class='it'>Mia
Cara</span>,’ A. J., ‘Love’s Confession,’ A. J.—why, <span class='it'>May</span>!
Well, you certainly made a conquest—who in the
world’s A. J.? Do I know him?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, he doesn’t live in Wilmington. He came from
a long way off.”</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t8158'>XXIV</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Aunt Priscilla trailed across the fields under
the soft spring sky, bringing her nieces the latest
installment of “Trilby” in Harper’s Magazine. There
were sticky circles all over the cover—how had they
gotten there? Jelly glasses? She licked a finger and
tried to wipe them off, but it only made them look
worse. “Oh, fie!” she said out loud to herself, scrubbing
away with a rather grubby finger.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A bird flew from the grass at her feet with a soft
whirr of wings, up into the sky. “<span class='it'>Goody!</span>” cried
Aunt Priscilla, startled; and added, “Cunning little
fellow!” And she went on talking to herself as she
climbed over the stile and plodded up through the
garden, “Willie would have gone fishing on a day
like this——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The tears rose in her eyes and spilled over. They
were always rolling down her cheeks now, every time
anything made her think of Uncle Willie. And everything
made her think of him, she was so lost without
him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How does anyone ever get used to their husband
being dead, or their wife?” she asked Maggie miserably,
sitting down in the kitchen rocking-chair, out of
the way of whisking drops of the purple dye in which
Maggie was stirring May’s old cream-colored challis.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Some people get used to it easy enough,” Maggie
answered briskly, her heart aching with pity. “Look
at Cousin Sam and his Daisy.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know—Sam’s sixty-five, the old foolish, and she’s
only twenty-four.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“So she says, but I bet she’s thirty-five if she’s a
day. Poor Cousin Lizzie!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You know, Maggie, I see a sort of likeness to
Lizzie in May, every now and then. The way Lizzie
used to be when she was younger.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I don’t, Aunt Priscilla,” said Maggie, looking
troubled, for she did. “Poor May! She don’t have
much fun, and she’s so bright and pretty—I’ve been
worried about her. She’s a funny one, too; she went to
a dance in Wilmington and had a wonderful time, and
yet, I haven’t been able to persuade her to go to another
since. But she has a new beau named Wadsworth
Robinson, he seems kind of silly to me, but he certainly
is devoted, and May acts happier than she has in a
long time. I wish she’d get married, and Victor,
too——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Victor’s so young!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s thirty-one—don’t seem possible, does it?
Look, this is a pretty color, don’t you think? I believe
I’ll slip up and get my old tan cape and dye that—and
Victor has some light ties that look kind of shabby.
No, I don’t believe he’s ever gotten over Lucy Hawthorn,
nasty little flirt. Of course, he’s liked lots of
girls, and you know he’s <span class='it'>ever</span> so popular, Aunt
Priscilla, he’s in demand for all the parties and
germans and débutante dinners—rosebud dinners, they
call them—but there hasn’t been anything serious since
Lucy, and I just wish he’d fall in love—goodness, is
that the front door?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll go,” Aunt Priscilla offered, thinking it was
probably the lady selling soap and vanilla and white
rose perfume who had been at her house a little earlier.
But, when she opened the door, there was Sam Blow’s
bride, dressed to kill in a cape of nut-brown velvet
lined with gold-colored satin, with three flaring collars
trimmed with gold lace, and holding her nut-brown
velvet skirt high enough to show bronze shoes with
sharp, tiny points and <span class='it'>Louis Quinze</span> heels. “As high
as stilts,” Aunt Priscilla thought, trying to squat a
little to hide her own old cloth sided boots. A hat
with an openwork jet brim and a crown of brown
velvet wreathed with yellow velvet roses and black
ostrich tips, perched high on her much too yellow hair;
and turquoise lizards and enamelled spiders and beetles
with garnet and diamond eyes crawled all over her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Daisy Blow’s in the parlor!” Aunt Priscilla panted
to Maggie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Aunt Priscilla! Oh, I <span class='it'>can’t</span> come! Oh,
<span class='it'>bother</span>—oh, <span class='it'>dear</span>! What did she have to come for?
Go on in, like an angel, and I’ll come just as soon as
ever I can——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And she rushed around, taking the dye off the stove—<span class='it'>mercy</span>!
Of course, she had to splash some out!
Then up the back stairs to scrub with soap and water—she
was purple from top to toe—give a yank to her
hair, and kick into her beaded slippers—that would
have to do. She looked like fury, but she couldn’t
help it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She didn’t like Daisy Blow. She looked fast,
and she certainly was painted black around the eyes,
for it had smudged a little. And what a lot of “Héliotrope
Blanc,” perfume, the woman was drenched in
it. And such airs over that huge bunch of violets,
telling them that the <span class='it'>fin de siècle</span> girl wouldn’t consider
herself dressed for out-of-doors without one.
Maggie felt a sudden warm gush of affection for
shabby, shy old Aunt Priscilla, with her corsets sticking
out in a ridge and powdered sugar all down her
front.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Conversation creaked along, heavy and slow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We thought you and Cousin Sam were still in
New York.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We came down three days ago. Sammy wanted
to rusticate a bit and see his beloved horses. I tell
him he loves them much better than he loves poor little
me. Just between you and I, my adored Sammy is
one of those social Hottentots, who thinks the conventions
of Society’s charmed circle are absurd, and
pines for the wilds of the country, while I am <span class='it'>désolée</span>
away from town.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’ll find it’s right nice here now that it’s spring,”
said Aunt Priscilla, and added in a little rush of
confidence, “My peach tree is in bloom!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is that so?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Everyone paused.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Meadowbrook’s such a nice house,” Maggie offered.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, my dear! It’s so old-<span class='it'>fashioned</span>! Of course,
Sammy gives me <span class='it'>carte blanche</span>, as they say, and I’m
going to try to brighten it up a little, but I fear me ’tis
a hopeless task. Perhaps, it will be more liveable when
we have a telephone put in, and electric lights.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Boastie!</span>” thought Maggie, going into the dining-room,
fiercely hospitable, to get out home-made wine
and the Christmas fruit-cake; and Aunt Priscilla’s
eyes were nearly popping out of her head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They sat making conversation together and taking
little nibbles and sips of cake and wine; Maggie and
Aunt Priscilla stiff and shy, the new Mrs. Blow grand
and uneasy, until the door banged, and there was
Victor. And then the caller came to life indeed.
“<span class='it'>My!</span>” thought Aunt Priscilla.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Whew!</span>” cried Maggie, dashing around, flinging
up windows as soon as Daisy Blow drove away.
“<span class='it'>Whew, whew, whew!</span> I never smelled so much perfume
in my life! <span class='it'>Whew!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Methinks, my lady’s auriferous tresses are too good
to be true,” said Victor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hmm! Methinks, you seemed to admire them,
all the same.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There aren’t any flies on Cousin Daisy,” Victor
admitted, smiling complacently into the mantelpiece
mirror.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, there’s everything else—turquoise <span class='it'>bugs</span> and
things, I never saw anything like it. And she certainly
ain’t a lady—why, she don’t even speak good grammar.
Here’s her handkerchief, absolutely <span class='it'>reeking</span>, now what
am I going to do with that?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I have to go by there tonight, I’ll take it over,”
said Victor, and he put it into his pocket and went
upstairs, two steps at a time, singing at the top of his
lungs:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Daisy, Daisy,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Give me your answer true,</p>
<p class='line0'>I’m half crazy,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;All for the love of you——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Maggie and Aunt Priscilla looked at each other.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>My!</span>” said Aunt Priscilla.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>On Saturday afternoons Victor taught Daisy to ride
a bicycle. He rolled her round and round the drive at
“Meadowbrook,” while she, in a balloon-sleeved pink
shirtwaist with a stiff white linen collar, and a small
grey Fedora hat, leaned against him shrieking at the
top of her lungs. And Daisy in a white silk tea-gown
with lace frills and a Watteau pleat, with red silk
stockings and slippers, taught Victor to make Welsh
rarebits in the chafing dish.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Now</span> the beer goes in,” and she leaned against him,
her perfumed hair brushing his cheek. Heavens, he
was slow! But there was something sweet about him,
too, and she was bored to death with her poor, dear,
old Sam, snoring in his den fit to raise the roof.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Or Victor took snap photographs of Daisy with her
French poodle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now waltz with Missy, Pompon,” Daisy would
cry, seizing his paws when the posing was over, and
the little black legs would scrabble as Victor whistled
“<span class='it'>Je t’aime.</span>” “Muzzer’s precious pet!” Daisy murmured,
covering Pompon with kisses, and looking up
coquettishly at Victor. “It’s love me, love my dog,
isn’t it, my poodlums?” Pompon had his own little
bed, with tucked and lace-trimmed sheets and a blue
silk coverlet, his own trunk to hold his ribbons and
collars. “Imagine old Snap!” exclaimed Lily, awed,
when Victor told the girls about it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His sisters decided to give a party for Victor.
Maggie said it was only polite when he’d gone to so
many, and paid no attention to his protests. He
didn’t want a party. The girls didn’t realize how
elaborate parties were nowadays, and he couldn’t
imagine his friends from town in the shabby dining-room,
with Papa’s old desk and Mamma’s oil paintings,
and the stains on the ceiling where the pipes had
burst. But what could he feel but embarrassed gratitude,
looking at his sisters’ glowing faces as they
planned his party for him?</p>

<p class='pindent'>The supper table was really lovely—May arranged
it, humming to herself, happy and light, seeing herself
as Wadsworth Robinson saw her. The centerpiece
was a mass of pansies tumbling from a torn
straw garden hat, glistening here and there with
touches of gold paint. And over the pansies flights of
yellow and violet butterflies trembled on finest wires
from the new lampshade of violet crêpe paper.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie was on a rampage in the kitchen, cutting
up chickens for the salad, slicing cold ham that
crumbled with tenderness, buttering bread for the
cucumber sandwiches. She was going to have nice
things for Victor’s party, if they had to live on mush
and molasses for the rest of the year. She murmured
to herself a rosary of delicious dishes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Salmon croquettes—all ready to heat—beaten
biscuit—<span class='it'>they’re</span> done—angel’s food—ice-cream—Jake’s
going to freeze it—coffee—I can tend to that
when I slip out to heat the croquettes—Ma-ay! Front
door bell!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Li-ly! Door bell!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And there was Daisy Blow, with an armful of lace
tablecloth, and her coachman with baskets of candlesticks
and pink china and goodness knew what.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My dear, I simply ran over with some little things
for tonight—oh, Pompon, petsums, <span class='it'>did</span> his Auntie Lily
step on him? He says <span class='it'>he</span> fordives her, he knows she
didn’t mean to hurt poor Pompon—<span class='it'>oh, shut up, Pomp!</span>
Is Snap around anywheres? He and Pompon—<span class='it'>Look!</span>
I brought this lace tablecloth and the pink satin one
for underneath to show through—that’s the <span class='it'>dernier cri</span>,
you know. And the table mirror and the china swan
to go on it are in one of the baskets—bring them in,
Pete—see, isn’t that <span class='it'>chick</span>? I always put that in the
center, then the flowers round it, and these silver
candlesticks with the pink candles and sweet little
pink silk shades—I said to Cousin Victor last night,
‘I’m just going to bundle up some things and bring
them over——’ ”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“May’s finished the table, I’m afraid.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let’s see! How do—oh, gracious! Too bad I was
so slow, but I’m such a sleepyhead in the morning,
and my old Sambo spoils me—oh, <span class='it'>too</span> bad you have a
violet lampshade, I brought over everything pink.
Haven’t you some pink silk or something you could
just run up into a little shade?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The butterflies that had been quivering in a delicate
living cloud turned back into paper and wire; the new
lampshade looked just what it was, a makeshift.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Aren’t you girls the smart ones? Who else in the
<span class='it'>world</span> would have fixed up an old hat for a centerpiece?”
Who else would want to, her expression said.
And though they didn’t <span class='it'>want</span> Daisy Blow’s lace
tablecloth and bisque swan, somehow there they were
on the table—“just to try——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Isn’t it a <span class='it'>dream</span>? <span class='it'>Sure</span> you don’t mind? Look at
these little pink silk candleshades—look! I paid
ever so much for them in New York. All puffly ruffly,
just like dreat bid drowed up lampshades, wasn’t
they, Pompon? Pompon says, ‘yes, jus’ <span class='it'>zackly</span>’ And
I brought over a box of pink and silver <span class='it'>dragées</span> I
happened to have—they’re not much to eat, in fact
they’re left over from a couple of dinner parties, but
they match the candles and candlesticks. Those
butterflies—hmm. They’re the cutest things I ever
did see, but they don’t just exactly go with the pink,
do they? I have an idea——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t let it get away,” said Lily, feeling daring.
That was what Victor always said. It was exciting, to
see all this pink and silver glowing and gleaming
around their old dining-room—horrid, if May minded,
but exciting.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll dash home and get some accordion-pleated
chiffon I’ve just had done for a teagown—there’s
yards and yards of it, we can catch it round the lamp—we’ll
all be raving beauties in its roseate glow. And
Mose has a lot of pink begonias in the conservatory,
they’d match better than the pansies—do you want
any more silver, while I’m over? Some bonbon dishes
or anything? I said to Cousin Victor, I’d <span class='it'>adore</span> to
bring anything, I know you live simply and why <span class='it'>should</span>
you have a lot of things? Come on, Pompon, come on,
Mudder’s boy——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie came in from the kitchen, sniffing. “Daisy
Blow’s been here,” she said, and then: “Oh, <span class='it'>May</span>!
Your <span class='it'>table</span>!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Daisy’s been rearranging it,” said May listlessly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why on earth did you let her? Such impertinence!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s the <span class='it'>dernier cri</span>,” Lily explained.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, it looks like fury! We don’t want Mrs. Sam
Blow’s things!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Maggie, who cares? Victor will think it’s
perfect if wonderful marvellous Cousin Daisy did it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Hmp!</span> May Campion, where are all your butterflies?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I threw them away.” May opened her clenched
hand, and looked at one little butterfly lying crushed
on her palm. “Daisy didn’t think they went with the
pink candleshades.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, she didn’t, didn’t she? You’ve been working
on those butterflies for nights and nights. Who’s giving
this party, anyway?” asked Maggie furiously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She asked it again through the evening, as Daisy
dominated everything, a jewelled dagger thrust
through her yellow hair, her cheeks plushy pink, as
vivid as the great pink puffs of her sleeves. “That
certainly is paint,” Maggie said to herself. Victor
thought Daisy was all that was bright and beautiful,
as she made him balance a caramel on his nose, pretending
he was Pompon, slipped a piece of ice down
Wadsworth Robinson’s collar, or led the chorus of
groans and laughter when the booby prize was given
to Raymond Line—a stuffed calico rabbit, “Representing
your <span class='it'>hare</span>-breadth escape from winning the first
prize,” Victor said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Screeching like a guinea-hen!” thought Maggie.
“What Victor can see in her——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Whatever it was he saw, Cousin Sam saw it too.
Old and tired and silly, trying to act as young as the
others, you could see his heart in his eyes as he looked
at Daisy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And just before supper, going out on the river porch
to get the cream, where she had put it to keep it safe
from Kitty, there were Daisy and Victor smoking
together!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess you think it’s real wicked for this little girl
to be smoking a cigarette,” said Daisy, and Maggie
answered, “No,” and stalked into the house, bursting
to add, “Not wicked, just cheap and silly!” She pretended
not to hear Victor call after her, “Cousin
Daisy certainly has made the party a success, hasn’t
she, Maggie?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She had been afraid they would notice, when she
went out to get the supper ready, and had thought
what to answer if anyone asked, “Where are you going?”
She would either say “To China!” or “Heigho
for meddlers!” But no one noticed. “Well, I didn’t
want them to,” she said, putting the croquettes into
the oven and giving the door a good hard slam.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She had meant what she said when she told Aunt
Priscilla that she wished Victor would fall in love with
someone, but she certainly hadn’t been thinking of
anyone like Daisy Blow.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t8574'>XXV</h1>

<p class='pindent'>“You mark my words, Lily—Wadsworth Robinson
is going to make May an offer, and what’s
more, I believe she’s going to take him. Look—he’s
really not bad looking—not <span class='it'>handsome</span>, but kind of
nice——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily joined Maggie in gazing out from behind a
pinch back of bedroom window curtain. Mr. Robinson
propped his bicycle against a tree, took off the clips
that held his white tennis trousers tight around his
ankles, straightened a small white hat above his serious
red-brown face, and took a box from the net hammock
on his handlebars. “Chocolates,” said Lily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>May had been watching, too, with a feeling of
fingers closing around her heart, squeezing it lightly.
Her knees trembled and she felt suddenly weak, and
had to sit down on her bed a moment—had to fling
herself down with her face in the pillow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She knew that he loved her, that he was going to ask
her to marry him. And she was going to marry him.
She shook with fascinated terror, dark excitement.
This way, alone, with her face pressed into the pillow,
she loved him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She got up, patted a dust of powder over her flaming
cheeks, and ran downstairs, and her sisters heard her
company voice cry:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, I didn’t know you were here! Isn’t it a
heavenly day for tennis? Victor’s gone over for
Daisy, they’ll be here soon, I guess.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>If only he had gone on from the place he had reached
in her dream! Already she had taken him past the
need of words. But he was himself, so much less real
to her than her idea of him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It certainly is a beautiful day! I’m looking forward
to our game of tennis very much.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Very much</span>”! Oh, oh, how tepid! And yet there
was nothing tepid in the way he was looking at her.
Wings fluttered in her breast, and her voice changed
from company voice to a light shaken chime of bells,
the secret of life escaped through it, though the words
it was crying were only:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, for <span class='it'>me</span>? Oh, you shouldn’t have—chocolates!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And bonbons,” he pointed out.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor and Daisy played against May and Mr.
Robinson. May felt like a soap-bubble, bounding,
gleaming, bright color swirling into bright color. Mr.
Robinson couldn’t take his eyes off her, he never even
looked at Daisy, except abstractedly, as if she were a
cow or a tree. His faithful dog eyes followed May,
you could almost see a loving tail wagging.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Stay to supper,” Maggie invited him and Daisy.
She didn’t want Daisy, but she couldn’t ask one and
not the other.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, my dear! Rapture and bliss <span class='it'>if</span> there was any
way of letting my old Sambo know—he’s feeling kind
of mean, and most likely he’s in bed and asleep; still,
I guess I ought to send word. Our telephone would
certainly be a lot more useful if any other of the folks
out here had one.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll go over on my bicycle,” suggested Mr. Robinson
in his deep serious voice, “And tell Mother on the
way that I won’t be home either.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, <span class='it'>would</span> you? Angel of light <span class='it'>and</span> mercy! I’ll
love you for life!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s a moon tonight,” said Mr. Robinson in a
voice vibrating with meaning. He only meant May to
hear, but Daisy heard too, and burst into screams of
laughter as he pedalled out of the drive, ringing his
bicycle bell to the empty road.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘There’s a moon tonight,’ ” she mimicked, deep in
her throat. “<span class='it'>Ow!</span> I shall die! May, he’s going to
propose! Wouldn’t you <span class='it'>know</span> he’s the kind of fellow
wouldn’t think a proposal was legal unless it was by
moonlight?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, don’t——!” cried Maggie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Ow! Ow!</span> My side! Where did he get that hat?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘Where did you get that hat?’ ” sang Victor, and
he picked up a little white paper bonbon case from Mr.
Robinson’s box, put it on his head, seized Lily’s palm
leaf fan, and gave an imitation of him playing tennis
that made them laugh until they cried.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh! Oh!” May was nearly sobbing. “Did you
ever see anything so much too small as it was, and so
white, and so <span class='it'>new</span>! If it hadn’t been so <span class='it'>new</span>! But
it might just as well have had ‘Bought for the occasion’
printed all over it in large black letters—oh! I shall
never be able to keep a straight face when I look at
him again——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And she laughed and laughed, with the tears rolling
down her cheeks, until she was almost screaming—faint,
sobbing screams, like something dying.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The moon turned the river to silver silk and showed
frills of white flowers edging the garden paths. The
air was drenched with moonlight and fragrance. And
all evening May kept close to Victor and Daisy in
the garden, though they certainly didn’t want her.
But she wasn’t going to be left alone with that silly,
solemn thing——</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie could stop worrying about Daisy, for she
had gone away—gone away forever. Cousin Sam
doubled up groaning one day on his old leather sofa,
said to her, trying to smile, “Don’t you worry, honey,”
and died. And Daisy cried as if her heart were broken,
and, covered with crêpe, yards and yards and yards of
crêpe, went back to New York as fast as she could go,
hardly stopping long enough to say goodbye, even to
Victor. Meadowbrook was sold to strangers now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A year later they saw her picture in “Types of Fair
Women” in Munsey’s Magazine, and learned that she
had married again. His sisters were afraid Victor
would mind, and tried to break it to him gently, but
he had heard it already and didn’t seem to mind at all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, <span class='it'>that’s</span> a relief!” thought Maggie, and yet—how
could he be so cheerful, when he had seemed really
to love Daisy? “Victor’s unselfish,” she told herself.
“When he’s unhappy he keeps it to himself.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>For a few hours they were excited—but God performed
again his miracle of changing the water into
wine, as the summer rains were bottled in the purple
and pale-green globes of the grapes; the frost killed
Maggie’s dahlias; Lily scalded her hand; the organ-grinder
came, playing his hollow plaintive tune and
jerking his monkey on its chain—there were other
things to think of happening all the time. They
seemed so important—and then they were over, and
no one remembered them at all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For the second time the thunder of war came to the
Campions—more distant now, in Cuba. War with
Spain was declared at the end of April—too beautiful
a time for people to be fighting, Maggie thought, pulling
down an apple-tree branch and snuffing at the red
buds and rose and silver blossoms. Still, one must
remember the “Maine.” Victor was always singing
about it.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Spain, Spain, Spain,</p>
<p class='line0'>Why aren’t you ashamed?</p>
<p class='line0'>Why, why, why,</p>
<p class='line0'>For blowing up the Maine?</p>
<p class='line0'>One, two, three,</p>
<p class='line0'>And Cuba will go free,</p>
<p class='line0'>There’ll be a hot time</p>
<p class='line0'>In the old town</p>
<p class='line0'>Tonight!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>How terrible it must be there for our poor soldiers.
The sisters, looking through the dim windows of the
newspapers, saw palm trees against quivering blue,
and small lizards with flickering tongues darting across
earth cracked open with the heat, across men who lay
too still to frighten them. And men were dying of thirst
and fever—that was worse than having a bullet sing
home to your heart. It seemed cruel to sit on the shady
porch, drinking cold water, throwing what was left
over the rail onto the lily-of-the-valley bed. And yet
it was so hard to realize. It was as if the newspapers
had made up a series of exciting stories.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Isn’t it <span class='it'>dreadful</span>?” the Campions would say
solemnly, reading, and then, kindling, “Well for
pit-ty’s <span class='it'>sake</span>—Raymond Line’s going to marry that
Dawson girl with the funny nose!” Or Mrs. Kelsey
was advertising for a cook, or, most exciting of all,
Victor’s name appeared. “Look, May! Look, Maggie!
Here’s Victor in <span class='it'>again</span>! ‘Mr. and Mrs. Edgar H.
Snare entertained a merry party of young people in
honor of their daughter Miss Lola at a picnic supper
on the banks of the beautiful Brandywine, those enjoying
their hospitality including’—mm—mm—here—‘Mr.
V. Champion’—<span class='it'>Champion!</span> How idiotic!
Wouldn’t you think they’d know by <span class='it'>this</span> time?
They’ve had him in often enough. Where are the
scissors? I want to cut it out for him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yes, it was hard really to feel that a war was going
on, although old ladies named their canaries “Dewey,”
men cheerfully whistled “Goodbye, Dolly, I must
leave you,” and “Just as the sun went down,” and
little boys turned their hats up in front and were
Rough Riders, shouting “Giddap!” to their bicycles,
and hissing beds of red and yellow cannas because
they were Spain’s colors.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you ever know May had a friend named
Allen Jermayne?” Lily asked Maggie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, I never heard of him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She says he’s fighting, he’s a captain, a West Point
man. She says she hasn’t any photograph of him,
that he never would have one taken, but she has a
drawing of a Gibson man she says is the image of him.
She acts awfully funny about it. I haven’t seen any
letters from Cuba, have you? But she showed me a
whole pile tied up with blue ribbon, and I could just
see ‘My loveliest’ something or other before she pulled
them away. And she showed me some flowers he sent
her from San Juan Hill—she said they were tropical
flowers.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What like?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sort of like pressed poppies.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, she’s been tearing up for the mail every
day—we wouldn’t have seen them. Oh, Lily, I do
wish—Allen Jermayne! A. J.! I do believe that’s
the man she danced with all evening that time she
had such fun in Wilmington, ages and ages ago. I
<span class='it'>think</span> it was A. J.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m going to be married as soon as the war is over,”
May told them one day. “I’m going to marry Captain
Allen Jermayne.” And Maggie, feeling as if a fist
had crashed between her eyes, knew that May was
lying even before she turned scarlet and burst into
tears.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Even Lily didn’t believe it. And May only pretended
half-heartedly. She told them one day that
Captain Jermayne had been killed, and she wore a
black dress and let the others go for the mail once
more. After that none of them ever spoke of it again.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t8835'>XXVI</h1>

<p class='pindent'>“I suppose it’s a sign a body’s getting old when
time goes by so fast,” Maggie thought, putting
“Victor—Many Happy Returns” and a border of
scallops and dots in pink icing on Victor’s birthday
cake. Forty-two candles—no, she wouldn’t, she’d put
on four, one for each of them to blow out and make a
wish on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Poor Aunt Priscilla had died, and people from
Marcus Hook had bought Riverview, nice people,
no doubt, but not Church people, and <span class='it'>she</span> looked—well,
plain, to say the least. But they had lots of
money. May and Lily, who called, reported emperors’
heads on bronze placques, hung against grape-arbor
paper, washbowls of Tiffany glass edged with wrought-iron
lace, suspended by heavy chains, and holding
electric lights, Turkish tabourets inlaid with mother-of-pearl,
cushions (so fat and firm that they left little
room in the chairs) covered with tapestry squares of
gaming cavaliers and drinking monks, and a deerskin
with the antlers left on hanging over the landing railing.
And Mrs. Detweiler had played her phonograph
to them—that was wonderful. What an age they
were living in—really, it seemed as if there was nothing
left to be invented. Think of the moving pictures
that Victor had told them about—“The Tailor’s
Dream,” with scissors cutting out clothes by themselves,
and trousers running away, “Expert Bag Punching,”
“Alaska Dog Teams at Dawson City,” “Winter
Sports in Norway,” “Levi and Cohen, the Irish
Comedians” (that had bothered Lily until Victor explained
it was a joke). How the sisters wished they
could see them! But, of course, ladies couldn’t; it
wouldn’t have been the thing at all to go into one of
those dark mysterious places, although Maggie said
she was just going to put on a thick veil and go, some
day. And now here they sat and listened to Sousa’s
band playing “Stars and Stripes Forever,” to someone
singing a comic song about a Tattooed Man——</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘It is perfectly true you can beat a tattoo,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;But you can’t beat the tattooed man——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>and to an Uncle Josh Whitcomb monologue that they
couldn’t understand very well. Still, it seemed as
if Uncle Josh must really and truly have his mouth
at the other end of that big tin morning-glory. Mrs.
Detweiler laughed so hard that little bright tears stood
on her bulges of cheek, and her diamond ear-drops
quivered.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Papa and the boys certainly do delight in our
talking machine! I wish you ladies could hear our Le
Moyne give an imitation of it—he holds his nose like
this—see? Like this. Laugh! We nearly die!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And when they started to go she stopped them with
a mysterious wink, flung herself back in her rocking
chair, and yelled over her shoulder:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Clarence! Cla-a-a-<span class='it'>runts</span>! (He’s our colored
waiter-man.) Bring some cup—there’s some in the ice-box,
and say! Clarence! Some pretzels—you ladies
like pretzels?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>In came a tall thin cut-glass tankard full of pieces
of banana and pineapple, with claret lemonade filling
the cracks, and a mountain of pretzels. She was kindness
itself, but somehow they didn’t go again, although
Victor went once for ping-pong and a chafing dish
supper and once to a box-party they gave in Philadelphia,
where he saw chinks of “Everyman” between
the towering hats worn by the ladies. Mrs. Detweiler
nearly cracked her jaw yawning, but she knew it was
“artistic,” and genteely patted the back of her gloved
wrist at the end of each act. Lily found something in
a newspaper: “ ‘Everyman’ will in a measure counteract
the cheapness of those fatuous frivolities, the ultra
modern musical comedies.” She cut it out and pinned
it to Victor’s pincushion. She almost felt, hazily,
dimly, that Victor was responsible for the plays he
honored by attending, the books he read, the tunes he
sang in the bathroom.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor sang “Hiawatha” and “Any Rags?”, went to
germans, collected steins (three—then he gave it up)
read “Storiettes” in Munsey’s Magazine, with heroes
named Jack Meadows and heroines named Madge Van
this or that, read poems about thinking you were in
love with Cora, and Dora, and Dolly, and Molly, and
Bessie, and Tessie, until you met the one girl (and
tried writing a few himself), made fudge in chafing-dishes
and played ping-pong with young ladies with
pompadours, bursts of chiffon at the backs of their
necks, and straight fronts, and felt that Maude Adams
would really understand him if only they could meet.
His mirror was stuck full of little pencilled dance-cards,
and often and often he had two invitations for
the same evening. Lily put his dead carnation
boutonieres in water, tried unsuccessfully to lend him
her mother-of-pearl opera glasses in their blue plush
case, and cut out every list that held, or should have
held, his name—sometimes to her indignation he was
hidden under the veil of “and others.” “Everybody
asks Victor everywhere!” she exulted, and May replied,
“Of course! He’s a bachelor. Wait till he gets
married and see if he stays so popular.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily ate fudge, read “Richard Carvel” and “My
Lady Peggy Comes To Town,” wishing that she had
lived in the time of brocade and powdered hair, saw
“If I Were King” and fell mildly in love with Mr.
Sothern in an ermine toque, fell mildly in love with
Gibson men, Christy men, and C. Allen Gilbert men,
made bead chains and got her threads in terrible knots,
and took up pyrography, burning crooked fleurs-de-lis
and <span class='it'>Art Nouveau</span> water-lilies on wooden picture frames
and glove boxes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>May had the straightest front and the biggest
pompadour in Brandywine Hundred, made the three of
them shirtwaists that were masses of handwork and
lace insertion to wear with white piqué skirts, worked
at a Battenberg lace bertha for Lily, holding the square
of pink muslin close to her smarting eyes—for she
needed glasses dreadfully, but she wouldn’t wear them,
she wouldn’t give in—and spent hours locked in her
room, lying on her bed with her arms around her
pillow, whispering——</p>

<p class='pindent'>And Maggie worked on, getting up while the east
was grey to start the fire and call Victor, worked
through the day worrying over May’s strangeness, the
way the hens weren’t laying, the way Victor was beginning
to get grey—Victor! Her little brother! Admiring
her own cakes, adoring her flowers, feeling patronizing
towards new people in church, and frightfully
annoyed with occasional squatters in their pew, and
fighting off, night and day, the panic that came with
the thought of how poor they were.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At last it had to be faced.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We just can’t go on. We’ll either have to sell the
house and move into a little one, or take boarders.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sell <span class='it'>The Maples</span>?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, then, we’ll have to take boarders.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So they put an advertisement in the paper, and were
sick with terror for fear someone would answer it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. and Mrs. Hopper and Miss Hopper came first.
“Oh, don’t like it! Don’t like it!” Maggie prayed in
her heart, as she showed them Mamma’s room and the
tiny room opening off it, where Victor had slept when
he was a little boy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ho-hum!” yawned old Mrs. Hopper. Her feet
were tired, and Josie kept on asking so many questions—weren’t
the trains noisy, and could Papa have a glass
of hot milk at bedtime, and how about the bathroom?
She picked up a pink plush pin-cushion bursting out of
a silver slipper, and turned it over to see if there was
a sterling mark on the bottom. “Well, Mr. Hopper,
you satisfied?” she asked her husband. They both of
them knew it was Josie who had to be satisfied, but
they liked to pretend.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And thin old-maid Miss Hopper, with her cheap
little rings and bracelets and rhinestone combs, her
beaver picture-hat, high on her head, and her bunchy
suit covered with big fancy buttons and sandwiches of
Irish lace and velvet, went on asking questions, so <span class='it'>tired</span>
of taking care of these two helpless old babies, so tired
of lagging while her slow old mother toiled along,
wagging her broad behind from side to side, blocking
up passage-ways and making audible remarks about
people. “Miss Hopper is so sweet to her mother,”
people said, when at a touch, Miss Hopper could have
burst out screaming and <span class='it'>shoved</span> Mrs. Hopper along
from behind, making her fat old legs trot, could have
shrieked “Oh, shut up!” instead of mouthing, “She’ll
hear you, Mama. I—don’t—know—who—she—is——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Mittendorf came next, because she was a
friend of Mrs. Hopper’s. Just before supper, the two
would put small knitted shawls around their shoulders
and take little walks around the porch, their broad
seats swaying, Mrs. Mittendorf calling “Hay foot!
Straw foot!” Mrs. Mittendorf hadn’t been there a
week before she spilled a whole bottle of essence of
peppermint on the nice new mattress.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Neff had the old school-room. Maggie got it
ready for him with a sword turning in her heart. And
after him came Miss Snaith, so quickly that Miss
Hopper was sure she had followed him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor was hardly ever at home in the evening any
more. He couldn’t stand the boarders all over the
house.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t ever get into the bathroom,” he complained
to Maggie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know—it’s Miss Snaith. She takes <span class='it'>hours</span> in there;
I believe she washes out her underclothes on the sly.
And then, of course, the others complain about there
not being any hot water.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I’d like sometimes to be able to get to my
room without running into a scuttling female in bedroom
slippers and curl papers.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’re getting ready to dazzle you and Mr. Neff,
steaming their faces under towels and smoking up the
lamps with their old curling irons.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That double-distilled ass! Why are they so excited
about him? He looks like something left over
from a straw-ride—and sticking out his chest as if he
owned the house. It doesn’t seem like home any more.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s hard on you. I wish we didn’t have to.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, it’s harder on you,” Victor said, and suddenly
hit her cheek with his lips, quickly and shyly, and ran
upstairs. Her nose tingled, tears came to her eyes.
“Old foolish!” she told herself severely with a loud
sniff, and hid away the moment with all the other
times of especial loving kindness between herself and
Victor—moments to wrap in tissue of gold and hide in
her heart forever.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>“Ain’t it cold?” complained old Mrs. Hopper. “I
hope I haven’t caught a cold; these ceilings are so high
seems as if the heat all went up to the top, and I believe
I had a draught on my back at dinner. I guess
maybe I better take some camphor, I don’t want to
get a cold——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The cracked, feeble, old voice droned on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Mittendorf patted an enormous yawn.
“Pardon <span class='it'>me</span>—I have the gapes!” She billowed in the
most comfortable chair, nearest the fire, her pink chins
scalloped down to her great curve of bosom, her fat
fingers, bulging from her dirty diamond rings, spread
themselves tenderly, lovingly on the curve of her
stomach. “Keep your stomach warm and you’ll be
all right,” she advised. “I’m a great believer in taking
care of the stomach—that’s the important thing. Be
good to your stomach if you want your stomach to be
good to you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Stomach. She sat there like some idol made of
great globes of pink crystal and ebony, holding
tenderly that thing that was before men were, that
insatiable thing that men work all their lives to
satisfy. Bring offerings of red meat, silver fish,
sheaves of wheat, tear the grapes from the vines;
hurry, hurry, or the Stomach will curl its lash of
hunger around the bodies of its slaves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Snaith didn’t think all this talk about tummies
was very delicate, with gentlemen in the room. She
was sitting on the floor, showing her Teddy bear pictures
in the fire, talking through it to Mr. Neff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“See the pixtures in the fire, Teddy? See the little
fire fairies? It just seems as if they were dancing,
don’t it? Yes, <span class='it'>Teddy</span> sees them! Teddy says they
look like they had blue and yellow skirts all going
fluttery.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A very pretty little fancy,” said Mr. Neff kindly,
rousing Mrs. Hopper to call to her daughter:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ain’t you going to give us some music this evening,
Josie?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Snaith might be full of her fancies, but she
couldn’t play the piano.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Everybody come and sing—what shall it be?
‘Just Kiss Yourself Goodbye’ or ‘The Message of the
Violet?’ Come and sing, Mr. Neff, we can’t get along
without <span class='it'>you</span>.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hem! Hem! I seem to have a frog in my throat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Teddy says he’s goin’ to sing too, so he is!” called
Miss Snaith, scrambling up. <span class='it'>Oop!</span> There went some
gathers! Miss Hopper took off her rings—the one
like a little piece of currant jelly, the four diamond
chips in a row, and the turquoise forget-me-not, and
put them in the swinging candle holder. And soon
they were singing:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Any rags, any bones, any bottles today,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;It’s the same old story in the same old way——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Neff was perfectly killing when he sang “Any
Ra-a-ags!” working Teddy’s little paw up and down
as if he were an opera singer. The ladies were in
raptures. Mr. Hopper tapped time to the music with
a thick-soled, carefully polished old boot, Mrs. Hopper
yawned and applauded, and Mrs. Mittendorf sat
smiling sleepily into the fire, too comfortable to move,
holding her darling stomach.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t9160'>XXVII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Summer came, and Miss Snaith and Miss Hopper,
in piqué skirts, with chatelaine bags hanging from
their straining belts, and lingerie waists with high
boned collars, whose bones left cruel red marks on their
necks, pretended to gather snowballs, while Mr. Neff
took their photographs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mercy, don’t take me, I’d spoil the picture!
Really, I take an awful photograph,” Miss Hopper
exclaimed, and Miss Snaith said, “I’d break the
camera!” And then Miss Hopper, who had been
looking at a snowball just above her head with a
soulful expression, came to with a start, crying, “Oh,
did you <span class='it'>take</span> it? Oh, I had no idea you were <span class='it'>taking</span>
it!” They could hardly wait until Mr. Neff brought
home the prints. Gracious, how dark they were! Miss
Snaith could have cried, she looked so like a colored
woman with a little white marble for a nose. “Oh,
that’s very pretty!” Miss Hopper assured her. “I
don’t think I’d know it was you, but it’s very pretty. I
think they’re splendid, Mr. Neff, especially as my face
hardly shows—that’s a <span class='it'>great</span> advantage!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Hopper had a Teddy bear too. Hers had a
blue ribbon, and Miss Snaith’s a pink, so they wouldn’t
get mixed. “Theodore bears,” Mr. Neff called them
in his funny way; and through them, through loving
speeches and caresses lavished on them, each tragic
virgin called to him, “Help me! Help me, before it
is too late!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They had given up trying to call to that stand-offish
Mr. Campion, although Miss Snaith’s heart fluttered
whenever she saw him—just to pass the door of his
empty room gave her a queer little pang, half pain, half
pleasure. “He said he was fond of pink,” she thought,
hooking herself into her old rose pongee princess dress.
“He said he liked womenly women, just after I said
I hoped women would never have to vote—I wonder
if he meant anything——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The leaves turned red; the snow fell. And in the
spring Mr. Neff left.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s Miss May,” he explained to Mrs. Mittendorf.
“I don’t know what’s the matter with her, she just sort
of smoulders all the time, and some days she won’t
even answer when you speak to her. I wouldn’t mind
that, if her highness don’t want to talk to me, all right,
she needn’t, <span class='it'>I’m</span> satisfied; but it’s the way she cries at
night, her room’s next to mine, and I can’t get my sleep—I
just can’t stand it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She’s a funny one,” agreed Mrs. Mittendorf, rocking
back and forth, her hands crossed over her belt.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She has bats in her belfry, that’s what’s wrong with
her,” said Mr. Neff darkly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Bats in her belfry! What would Mr. Neff say
next! Mrs. Mittendorf swayed backward and forward,
shaking with silent laughter. Bats in her belfry!</p>

<p class='pindent'>Summer again, and boiled cherry puddings. “Dr.
Mittendorf was always the greatest one for boiled
cherry pudding,” said Mrs. Mittendorf, really thinking
of her dead husband for the first time in ever so
long. “When cherries were in market, I’d only have
to say to Doctor, ‘Well, Doctor, what would you like
for dinner?’ ‘Boiled cherry pudding!’ ” Her little
eyes swam, partly from sentiment, partly because the
steaming purple-stained dough was so hot.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The mosquitoes were dreadful. Mrs. Hopper used up
bottles of citronella. And it was so hot. The boarders
rocked on the river porch, slapping and flapping their
palm-leaf fans. Muggy, that’s what it was. The
Hoppers decided they needed a change of air—they
would try Asbury Park for a while.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the real reason was that May made them nervous.
“I don’t see how you stand it, Ethel,” Miss
Hopper said to Miss Snaith. They had grown quite
fond of each other since Mr. Neff had gone. “She’s
got a look in her eyes that sends the cold chills up my
spine.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Mittendorf followed them. “I hate to go in a
way,” she told Miss Snaith. “Miss Campion sets a
lovely table, and there aren’t many places give you
eggs, too, mornings you have scrapple. And I have to
have plenty of good wholesome food, I’m stout, but
I’m not strong. I haven’t any fault to find with Miss
Campion, though she is outspoken, nor Miss Lily
either, though she’s rather selfish for all she’s so
religious—deceitful, too. For instance, last Sunday
I was just going to slip up to my room with the Sunday
papers, just to glance through them, and I looked
all round the parlor—no papers! And there sat Miss
Lily, as innocent as you please, reading ‘The Spirit of
Missions.’ So I said, ‘Pardon <span class='it'>me</span>, but have you seen
the Sunday papers?’ and she sat there looking around
and said ‘I don’t see them.’ No, and do you know <span class='it'>why</span>
she didn’t see them? She was sitting on them! I
saw a corner sticking out—<span class='it'>I</span> gave her a look! Still,
that isn’t why I’m going, Miss Snaith, I haven’t any
complaints to make about the house, though I never
<span class='it'>was</span> in a place it was so hard to get hot water; but
naming no names, there’s some one here that ought to
be put away, and my nerves won’t stand it!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And at last only Miss Snaith was left, poor Miss
Snaith and her Theodore bear.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>May was in the garden, cutting the big solid mauve-pink
roses, dew-cool and sweet. She felt happy and
young, she whistled to herself. He certainly wasn’t
an ordinary plumber, anyone could see that. So handsome,
with those thick lashes, curling back from bright
blue eyes, those strong brown hands——And the
way he looked at her, the way he blushed when she
spoke to him—<span class='it'>oh!</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>The trouble was, he probably thought of her as a
sort of Madonna, so high above him. There ought to
be some way of letting people know. Perhaps when
he came this morning she could drop a rose at his feet
while she was saying goodmorning—everyone knew a
rose meant love.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>What became of May Campion?</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Didn’t you hear? She eloped with a plumber!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Good heavens! A daughter of that proud old
family!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>And the strange thing is, she is radiantly happy—I
have never seen her look so beautiful. He is utterly
mad about her, everybody says.</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>A bee circled buzzing about a rose, and lighted on
it, clinging, burrowing into it, pushing deep into its
sweetness; and May, watching it, felt the blood leap
to her face, began to tremble.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Isn’t the plumber coming today?” she asked
Maggie casually as she put her flowers in water.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s been and gone. He’s finished the job—isn’t
that nice? I was afraid he’d have to come two or
three times again.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s <span class='it'>through</span>?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes—May, what’s the matter? <span class='it'>May!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t mind for myself,” May said through
strangled sobs. “But he’ll be so disappointed!” And
then she began to scream; “You did it! You did it!
You sent him away because you were jealous!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>May!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You always have been of everyone who was ever
in love with me! You stole Edward from me—you
did, you did! He came to see <span class='it'>me</span>, and you stole him,
but you couldn’t keep him! Well, I hope you’re satisfied,
you and Victor——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor never harmed you or anyone in all his life.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Didn’t he? Didn’t he? He kept me from marrying
Wadsworth Robinson. Oh, yes, he did; if it
hadn’t been for Victor I’d have been happily married
today—Wadsworth loved me, and I’d have been
happy with him, if Victor hadn’t shown me how silly
he was, laughing and making fun of him. And he
kept Mamma from marrying Mr. Lacey, he kept you
from marrying Edward—he’s done nothing <span class='it'>but</span> harm,
all his life.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She pressed her shaking hands against her mouth,
she looked at Maggie with desperate, wet, red eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Maggie, I’m so unhappy—I wish I could
die——”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Snaith couldn’t decide whether or not to send
Mr. Campion a valentine. Would he think it was
funny of her? Of course, he might not guess who it
came from—but in that case there wouldn’t be much
point in sending it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There were some very pretty ones at Butler’s. “The
is red, the blue”—what did that mean? It didn’t
make sense. Oh, yes, there were pictures of a rose and
a violet, instead of the words. That was dainty!
Quaint, too, once you caught on. And this red heart,
with the border of forget-me-nots——</p>

<p class='pindent'>A Teddy bear! What next! A Teddy bear looking
through a hole in a pink heart, and a little verse:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“Please <span class='it'>bear</span> in mind, I hope you do,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;A tender heart that beats for you.”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Just the thing! She would pretend it was from
Theodore bear.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She could hardly wait for Jake to bring the mail
on St. Valentine’s Day. There it was, her envelope
with its printed address! She’d have fun watching
him when he opened it—but she <span class='it'>knew</span> she would
blush. Another envelope for him, that looked like
a wedding invitation, a postcard from Miss Lily—just
a guild-meeting—an envelope that looked like a
valentine for Miss May, and a florist’s square box—violets,
if Miss Snaith wasn’t mistaken. Now who
could be sending violets? Nothing for herself.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Saint Valentine’s been good to you, Miss May.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A valentine?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, you and Mr. Campion seem to be the only
ones favored.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who’s been sending me a valentine? Oh, and
<span class='it'>violets</span>! Oh, Miss Snaith, <span class='it'>smell—mm</span>!” She pressed
the violets she had sent herself against Miss Snaith’s
nose.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My, what a big bunch! Somebody must like
someone, sure ’nuff!” Miss Snaith said, sniffing enviously.
She wished Miss May would open her envelope—not
that she was curious, just interested.
But May took it and went upstairs to her room,
humming and smelling her violets.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Behind her locked door she dropped the violets on
the floor and ripped open the envelope. There was a
daub in red and green and yellow, a hideous sharp-nosed
creature with a cat on her bony knees. “A
Hopeless Old Maid,” the black letters said beneath
the picture.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Oh, for a man’ has been your prayer</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For many long and weary years,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;But all your wiles, both sly and bold,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The males have met with heartless jeers.</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;Now, surely, you must know, yourself,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;That longer hope is wholly vain,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;And that a pitiful, sour Old Maid</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The rest of life you must remain.”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Miss Snaith wanted to get into the bathroom—of
course! May had been in there for hours—over an
hour, anyway. The water had stopped running ever
so long ago, and yet every time Miss Snaith in her
old rose flannelette wrapper looked out into the hall,
the bathroom door was still shut.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Well, she’d just lie down on her bed and close her
eyes a few minutes. They said that made one look
fresh in the evening. “I wonder what he’ll say when
he opens that valentine!” she thought.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She got up and had another look. The door was
still shut. What smelled so good? Gingerbread
baking for dessert. She hoped they’d have whipped
cream with it, instead of lemon sauce—she might just
say she didn’t think lemon sauce agreed with her very
well. Not in front of Mr. Campion, of course.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She got out her demi-trained brown skirt and her
best waist of tan nun’s veiling, just back from the
cleaner’s. Those bishop sleeves were always getting
in the butter. They’d done it very nicely, but it did
smell funny. Oh, dear! Perhaps if she sprinkled
on a few drops of “Cashmere Bouquet”——</p>

<p class='pindent'>Which would look nicer with it, her carved sandalwood
beads or the <span class='it'>repoussé</span> silver <span class='it'>bonbonnière</span> that
swung to her knees on its long chain? The <span class='it'>bonbonnière</span>
was heart-shaped—that would be appropriate
to Saint Valentine’s Day, and there were some cachous
left in it that she could pass around.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She pinned a crescent of “rat” on the top of her
head, and turned her hair back over it in a high, hard
pompadour. Then she looked into the hall again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Tock, tock, tock,” said the clock on the stairs.
Why, she wouldn’t have time to wash her hands and
face for supper, not to mention washing out a few
handkerchiefs and a pair of stockings or so. She tiptoed
to the bathroom door and listened—not a sound!
Well, she’d just say something tactful through the
keyhole. She rattled the knob a little, and called
humourously: “Anybody drownded?”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Victor had stayed in town for a rehearsal at the
Century Club, and was having a pleasant time with
a pair of pretty Chicago ears, in Wilmington on a
visit. The Maples was becoming an old plantation
as it entered their sympathetic pinkness, Jake and Ida
were turning into any number of old family servants,
speaking in anecdotes and full of devotion for “Mr.
Victor.” Things grew more Southern every minute,
and Mrs. Jenkins’ voice shattered through an atmosphere
of magnolia trees and mocking birds.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where’s the Bachelor? Bachelor! Mr. Campion!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Present!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Well!</span> I’ve been calling till I—Margaret! Margaret
Johnson! You stay right here! We’re going
to run through the ‘Bachelor’s Revery.’ Now, listen
everybody, <span class='it'>please</span>, we want to go through everything
the way we’re going to tomorrow night—no fooling
or giggling. <span class='it'>What</span>, Mr. Burnett? Yes, certainly,
the firelight glow and everything——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The firelight glowed—electric lights covered with
red crêpe paper. Victor walked to the middle of the
stage, watched coldly by Mrs. Jenkins. It was plain
from the look in her eye that she wasn’t going to like
it, no matter what anyone did.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Tomorrow is my wedding day,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Tonight, in the firelight’s glow,</p>
<p class='line0'>I’ll sit and dream of bygone days,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And the girls I used to know.’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“You’ll have to talk louder than that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All right, I will tomorrow.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I hope you do,” said Mrs. Jenkins dubiously.
“School Girl! Please <span class='it'>try</span> to be right here for
your cues, or we won’t get through tonight.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor sank into a Morris chair before “the firelight’s
glow,” lit his pipe, gave a great stretch, and sank into
the revery, while Margaret Johnson in sunbonnet,
pinafore, and curls, was hit now and then by Mr.
Burnett’s wavering spotlight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not yet, Débutante, not yet—you must wait until
School Girl’s through——” and she prompted the
Bachelor:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘And seem to see again</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The little——’ ”</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line0'>“ ‘The little old red schoolhouse</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;At the bottom of the lane.’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“Now, Débutante——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of course, I’ll have a bouquet to hold tomorrow
night,” the Débutante explained, giving her satin
girdle a good tug down in front, and patting the mass
of curls that burst out from under her coiffure wreath
of cotton English daisies with cotton and rubber tubing
stems. Some of them didn’t feel any too secure.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Indian Maiden!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They only had an Indian Maiden because Gertrude
Carr had the costume. That was silly for a Bachelor’s
Revery, Victor thought. But the Athletic Girl had
lots of style, with her red flannel shirtwaist and white
stock, her Tam o’ Shanter and flung-back plaid golf
cape.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I thought you were going to carry a golf stick,
Ada.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I am, Mrs. Jenkins, but I can’t borrow it until
tomorrow.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Summer Girl—how pretty she looked in her
leghorn hat, wavy as a fluted cake-pan, trimmed with
roses and set on a high bandeau. Her ingenuousness
was quite a contrast to the Widow, draped in black,
with her hands clasped behind her to show her fine
bust and straight front.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Bride! Bride! Where’s the Bride? Where’s
Marguerite?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She isn’t here yet, Mrs. Jenkins, she and Scudder
Tait were coming by auto, I guess that’s why they’re
so late.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Jenkins folded her lips and sighed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, the ones of you that are going to be in the
Gibson Tableaux needn’t wait any longer, but the
Sunflower Belles and Beaux might go through their
cakewalk again while we’re waiting for her. Please
give us ‘Hello, Mah Baby,’ Mr. Sargent. <span class='it'>Mr. Sargent!</span>
I said ‘Hello, Mah Baby’.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But at last they were through, and Victor was going
home on the Darby car, that connected Wilmington
with Philadelphia now, was peering through the windows
into the night—here was his getting-off place.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fields were white with snow, and snow fell
cold and fresh on his face. He walked buoyantly up
the lane, thinking of the way the Summer Girl had
looked at him—the Widow, too, for that matter. His
mouth went up a little at the corners.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie heard him singing “Hello, Mah Baby” as he
climbed the porch steps, and flung the door open.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Victor, I thought you’d never come——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I forgot to tell you I was going to stay in for a
rehearsal—what’s the matter? Why are you
crying?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“May—May’s drowned herself—in the bathtub——”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie—Mrs. Detweiler sent all these lilies—I
wish I’d never made fun of her——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Bring them in, Victor. Doesn’t she look sweet
and young? I keep thinking of the time she was the
‘Lady of Shalott’—do you remember? She had lilies
then, too.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She looked from Victor’s red swollen eyes to her
sister’s lovely tranquil face, and for a second it seemed
as if an answer to all life’s questions had come to her,
and gone before she could make it hers. May looked
so young again, so happy. The room where she lay
was in twilight, but out of doors sunlight on snow
made a white flame too bright for mortal eyes.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t9627'>XXVIII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, the rooms are lovely and <span class='it'>big</span>—but so little
closet space! Lovely high ceilings—they must
make it a very hard house to heat, don’t they? See,
Homer, it would have to be painted all over—see,
it’s all chipping off here, it comes off wherever I touch
it. See? Everywhere. Careful, dear, the stairs are
rather steep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here’s the kitchen,” said Maggie severely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hmm. Nice and big, isn’t it? It would take a
good many steps to get around <span class='it'>this</span> kitchen, wouldn’t
it? Not much like the way they’re building them
now. No electric light, have you, or even gas?
Where do you get hired girls who’ll take care of
lamps nowadays? Look out, Homer, the floor’s uneven,
don’t trip.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here’s the river porch.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes. I guess the view must be very pretty
when there isn’t quite such a glare.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now I’ll show you the garden.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Want to see the garden, Homer? We might as
well. What do you call those pink and awrnge
flowers? Oh, yes, snapdragons! Remember the
<span class='it'>beautiful</span> snapdragons we saw at Mrs. Proudie’s,
dear? They were simply <span class='it'>enormous</span>! Oh, yes, there’s
your little pool. Have you ever seen Mr. Beswick’s
water garden, over near Kennett Square? Fountains
and everything, and the gold-fish in it are <span class='it'>this</span> big!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then she was saying, “Well, thank you, I’m
afraid it’s a little <span class='it'>big</span>, but we’ll let you know if we—ah——”
They were buttoning up their linen dust coats,
he was pulling on his gauntlets and settling his goggles
and she was tying yards and yards of chiffon veil
over her visored cap, and their Royal Tourist was
coughing and jerking out of the drive.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Such people!” said Maggie. She felt faint with
the torture of showing the place to so many, listening
to their criticisms, torn between the hope of her mind
that it would be bought and the hope of her heart
that it wouldn’t.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then it was sold. The Maples sold! The
rich Bayard Spears bought the place. “Of course,
you must consider your lovely, lovely garden just as
much yours as ever,” Violet Spear told the Campions.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie and Lily were clearing out the box-room,
getting ready to move.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What are those big things done up in newspaper?
Our old bustles! I guess no one will want <span class='it'>them</span>
again. Here’s Cousin Jennie Blodgett’s ‘God Bless
Our Home’ motto that Victor spoiled when she was
making it here—don’t you recollect; he was just a
little fellow, and he fell off the footboard of the bed
into her lap? She cried, and we were so scared—see,
it’s all broken—why do you suppose we’ve kept it so
long? Look, Lily, these old hats! Did you ever see
anything so ridiculous, and yet we thought they were
lovely—look at this one the size of a butterplate
trimmed with a wreath of white clover and a seagull—and
yet May looked as pretty as a picture in it!
And look at this teeny, weeny muff—it looks like a
mouse’s muff—and it’s <span class='it'>full</span> of moths—I guess we’d
better throw them all away——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Shall we keep this lampshade pattern, Maggie?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That isn’t a lampshade, that’s Miss Snaith’s pattern
for circular drawers.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, is it? I guess that’s why I had such a hard
time making that yellow lampshade from it. Here’s
Victor’s old silver mug—how did that get up here?
And Mamma’s Wardian case——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The Wardian case! Remember how we used to
get ferns in the woods for it? And the woods are all
cut down and built over now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Look, Maggie, Mamma’s beadwork! Recollect
how we would string the beads for her? And she let
us have enough for necklaces for all the dolls—oh,
dear, of course, I had to spill them!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mothballs rattled to the floor and rolled into
corners with the rolling beads, as Maggie pulled out
Grandfather’s old shawl. And here were rolls of wall
paper, Mamma’s moss rosebuds, the buff lozenges of
the bedroom they had slept in as little girls, a diamond
pattern of crossed mauve ribbons that Maggie just remembered
in the parlor. Here was a box full of crêpe
veils, calling up visions of sadness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Oh</span>——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What is it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s Victor’s old autograph album—look, don’t
you remember, May copied that dove with the banner
in its mouth for him. ‘Please do not tear out any
leaves. Victor Campion. The Maples,’ ‘Remember
our school days at Rugby. Very truly, Your
friend, J. W Harris.’ Who was he, one of the
teachers?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, he was a little boy who came out for over
Sunday once, don’t you remember, he and Victor got
a bag of black walnuts and got walnut stain over
everything? And he was homesick and cried after
they went to bed.”</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Tell me not in mournful numbers</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Flirting is an empty theme,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For all <span class='it'>school boys</span> have their pleasures</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When the <span class='it'>girls</span> upon them beam.</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Your friend, Emmie Holly.</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Did you have a nice time hunting the pump that night?’</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“Well, for pity’s sake! Emmie Holly!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Maggie——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here’s Edward—‘Ever your friend, Edward Post.’ ”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I didn’t know Victor had this book so long ago.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here’s poor Aunt Priscilla—‘The night is’ something—a
big blot—‘that never finds a day.’ ”</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘In sailing down the stream of life</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In your little canoe</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;May you have a pleasant voyage</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And room enough for two.</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Your friend, Bessie Schmalsweiden.’</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“Bessie Schmalsweiden! What a name! Who’s
<span class='it'>she</span>? I never heard of her in my <span class='it'>life</span>! Here’s
another:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘You may dream of poetical fame</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But your wishes may chance to miscarry,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;The best way of sending one’s name,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;To posterity, Victor, is to marry.</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;M. C.’</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“Who’s M. C.? Lily!</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘<span class='it'>Remembrance</span> is all I ask,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;And if remembrance prove a task</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;<span class='it'>Forget me!</span></p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;You true friend, Lucy Hawthorn.’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“Here’s another book—shall I give it to Jake for
the children?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Look and see if there isn’t a picture of a little girl,
carrying her baby brother across stepping stones over
a brook and trying to hold on to a bunch of wild
flowers—yes, there it is! Why did that picture
always make me feel so happy? We better keep all
these old songs of Mamma’s.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She turned over the yellow sheets of music. “All
That’s Bright Must Fade.” “Where Is My Lover?”
“Withered Geranium.”</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Home of youth! all thy pleasures</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Are impressed on my heart——</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;Ere they fade from my mem’ry</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Life itself must depart——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“’S Maggie! ’S Maggie!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I told Lossie to yell up when it was lunch time,
but it <span class='it'>can’t</span> be yet. What is it, Lossie?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dey aint nothin’ fo’ lunch, scusin’ some pohk
chops Ah give Jake.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess fried tomatoes’ll have to do. I’ll run out
and get some, and you be looking through this trimming
box, Lily—there’s a lot that’s not worth moving
that Lossie’d love to have—those jet buckles are
kind of pretty, though.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Coming in from the truck patch with the tomatoes,
she saw a butterfly that had lighted on the bricks by
the kitchen steps and was slowly opening and closing
its quivering wings, blue in the sunshine, black in
shadow. She stood gazing at it, lost.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Goodness!</span> I haven’t any time to stand looking at
butterflies!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But what did it make her think of? What was it?
And then she was back through the years, back under
the pear tree with Edward, watching another butterfly.
The tomatoes fell to the ground and burst.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>After all it was a relief when they were finally in
the new house. It was a plain little place, and they
couldn’t see the river; but there was a sunny bay-window
for Maggie’s geraniums, and the card dish
was full of calling-cards, with the grandest surreptitiously
put on top by Lily. And just having a clean
empty kitchen to go into was luxury. To know there
wouldn’t be a slimy mass of tea-leaves and orange
seeds and bits of string to be picked out of the sink
drain, or a tipped-over bottle of sticky black “tonic”
oozing among the tea-towels: to be able to relax from
the mental pushing and shoving at the dark sisters of
that long procession that strolled through the kitchen
of The Maples while the Campions were keeping
boarders.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Maples was being remodelled. Maggie
never went on that bit of road, but people told her
about it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It wouldn’t have been as hard if the Spears hadn’t
been making the place so much more beautiful. The
new walled garden; the long-spurred columbine from
England; the tea-roses with their melting colors of
sunsets and peaches and cream; the little lead boys
holding a sun-dial on their heads, far older than the
great trees that feathered the sky above the house;
Mrs. Spear’s tool-house like a little stone house in the
woods in a German fairy tale, with all the tools
Maggie had always wanted, with their handles
painted moss-green, and the shelter-seat under the
pear trees, whose petals fell on butler and footman
spreading the lace cloth, bringing out silver tea-things
and plates of paper-thin bread and butter or hot crumpets
melting with butter and tenderness. It would
have been easier to bear, if the Spears had gone in for
peanut brittle stone walls and round beds of cannas,
like Mrs. Detweiler.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Spear was always sweet about giving the
Campions the credit when people praised her garden,
but to her friends she said:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, of course, my dear, it <span class='it'>was</span> a <span class='it'>sweet</span> old place;
but really and truly, the <span class='it'>condition</span> it was in—! Did
you ever <span class='it'>see</span> it before we bought it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>No matter what changes they made, Maggie
thought, she could keep The Maples unchanged in
her heart. When her home had been hers, she had
never been able to hold it—the leaves fell, sunsets
faded, darkness drank up the river, everything
changed and passed like flowing water. But now that
she had lost it it was hers forever, immortal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily wanted dreadfully to go to the housewarming
the Spears gave, when all the changes had been made.
“It would hurt their feelings so if none of us came,”
she thought. And she did want to see what they had
done to the house, and then there were sure to be
wonderful refreshments. Of course, <span class='it'>if</span> she went she
wouldn’t mention it to Maggie, who would rather die
than go, she knew, and who couldn’t stand the Spears
just because they had bought The Maples.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>If</span> I go—” Lily said to herself, up to the time
when she put on her hat and her new dotted veil—goodness,
how stiff and scratchy! And then with her
heart thumping she crept downstairs and out of doors,
while Maggie, with her head tied up in a dustcloth
and her mouth full of tacks, was covering the old
schoolroom sofa with a pair of the parlor curtains,
too busy to notice what anyone else was doing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They had taken away the fountain with its iron
calla-lilies—how queer! All it needed was a little
paint, and one broken lily fixed. But there was another
fountain, a new one, in the garden, white against
the hemlock hedge, a slender column splintering into
rainbows, veiling itself in thin crystal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Sunlight drenched through the trees, the red tulips
were sun-filled cups—Holy Grails at a garden party.
She had a new hat, bought secretly in Wilmington.
“It’s my own money!” she told herself, but she knew
she ought to save it for the dentist. It was a sort of
peach-basket, only it had grapes on it instead of
peaches. She had tried on almost every hat in the
shop before she found it, and her mild deliberation
nearly drove the shop-girl mad. “You’ve got to remember
you have a stout face, dear,” she said, plunging
hat after hat on Lily’s head, bending down an
ear. “That’s why you don’t think they look good on
you, but the hats themselves are really lovely; I
wouldn’t tell you so if they weren’t.” But Lily loved
this one—white grapes that looked good enough to
eat. Their light tapping cheered her now, she put up
her hand from time to time to feel them. But even
with the new hat, even though she had enlivened her
old brown silk dress with pectoral fins of brown
chiffon, and cleaned her white gloves, among the other
women in their frilly flower-colored organdies and
muslins, she felt like a hoptoad in a petunia bed. She
almost wished she hadn’t come—but the <span class='it'>café frappé</span>
was delicious, and an orchestra, under a striped red
and white awning over near the beech tree, was playing
that lovely new waltz from “The Merry Widow”
that Victor was always whistling. And then everyone
was being so kind.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sweet of you to come,” Mrs. Spear murmured, her
eyes wandering absently while she clung to Lily’s
hand. “<span class='it'>Do</span> you like our little changes? Of course,
really <span class='it'>you</span> did the whole thing—aren’t the tulips
heavenly, if I do say so myself? You know my little
Dorothy, don’t you? Just think, Dotty, Miss Lily
used to live here when she was a little girl like you,
and maybe some day she’ll tell you all about what she
used to do then—won’t that be <span class='it'>exciting</span>?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Would you like to hear all about what I did when
I was a little girl like you, darling?” Lily asked in a
voice dripping with honey.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No-o.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dorothy! If you can’t speak politely to Mother’s
friends, you can go up to Fraulein! Now stop kicking
the grass with your pretty new slippers—<span class='it'>Dorothy</span>—and
take Miss Lily’s hand and show her where the
refreshments are, that’s Mother’s big girl!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So Lily had some more <span class='it'>café frappé</span>. And while she
was eating it she gave such a jump that she spilled a
spoonful down her front. There was Victor! She was
pretty sure he didn’t want her to see him; she knew
she didn’t want him to see her. And it made her sad
to see him there, a guest in the home that should have
been his own.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She puffed off to the house as fast as she could go.
People were swarming like bees in a hive. “Just poke
around,” urged Mrs. Spear, hurrying past. “See
what we’ve done upstairs——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She didn’t want to look into the bathroom, but
something pushed her, pulled her. How changed—it
was a blue and silver fairy tale of a bathroom now!
The crackling copper-lined tub was gone, and a white
porcelain one was in its place. And here was the room
where she and Maggie and May used to sleep when
they were small. The place where Victor did the
decalcomania goose, upside down to make it funnier,
all the dark brown wood, was painted over, the walls
and soft chairs were pink, the bed and dressing table
were all pink ruffles. She was like a bee in the heart
of a rose. How changed——</p>

<p class='pindent'>The white fur rugs, the pink walls, blurred and
faded. Three little girls in round combs and striped
stockings played together in the pool of yellow sunlight
on the floor. Her mouth jerked, she fumbled for
her handkerchief, but they did not look at her as she
stood in the doorway.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t10019'>XXIX</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Fannie Page tilted the side of her face to her
husband’s casual kiss, as she went on reading her
letters. “Frances says little Francie’s been chosen to
be Wild Rose in the school play,” she told him across
his fence of newspaper. “She’s making her a costume
of pink and green crêpe paper—seems to me <span class='it'>studying’s</span>
the last thing they think of in school nowadays.
Elizabeth says as far as she can see the twins never
do anything but model in clay and sing folk-songs.
Let’s see. Both Freddie’s front teeth are out. Poor
little fellow, how funny he must look! What’s the
matter with your canteloupe, dear? Isn’t it good?
I <span class='it'>told</span> that man——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where’s Pren?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He had breakfast earlier. He’s going to Springfield
with the Bangs boys, I only hope they don’t
break down and have to be towed home again. I told
him I’d tell you he’d taken the automobile, I knew
you wouldn’t mind.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I do mind.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, you don’t.” She heaved her violet billows
out of her chair, and came around to kiss the bald
place on the top of his head. She must remember to
get him some more hair tonic—not that it seemed to
do much good.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have another cup of coffee—of <span class='it'>course</span>, it won’t
hurt you. Mary, ask Ella for some hot waffles.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here’s about my speech at the banquet, Fannie.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mmm——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, if you aren’t interested——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What? Oh, darling, I <span class='it'>am</span>, <span class='it'>intensely</span> interested!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What in?” he asked suspiciously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, to tell you the truth, Prentice, I wasn’t
listening, I was reading a letter from Margery, and
<span class='it'>guess</span> who she’s met! Victor Campion! Did you
ever? Listen——</p>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘Betty and I went to a dinner before a dance at the
Century Club, I wore my candleshade——’ ”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Her what?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, her pink dress with the crystal fringe—let’s
see—‘and split the skirt again——’</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Tc!</span> Why <span class='it'>will</span> they try to dance in hobble skirts?
Wait, where is it that she tells about Victor?</p>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘I had something aged but sprightly on one side
of me, named Mr. Victor Campion. When I say
sprightly, I mean he’s the kind that’s still begging for
a rosebud; and one of the other men told me at the
dance that after dinner he told them the world’s
mildest limerick about a split skirt that he evidently
considered absolutely devilish. He was pretty old for
the party, but Betty says everybody uses him for filling
in, though the débutantes groan when they get
next him; and, of course, he’s <span class='it'>not</span> exactly thrilling.
She says he’s a regular town institution, you haven’t
properly come out until Mr. Campion comes to your
tea and says ‘What charming blossoms and what still
more charming buds!’ You’ll see he really <span class='it'>is</span> old
when I tell you he says he knew you when you were a
girl—<span class='it'>Well!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A polite daughter you have!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now, Prentice, of course, we seem a thousand to
those young things—just a lit-tle <span class='it'>bit</span> of egg on your
chin, darling!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘He seemed inclined to give me a rush at the
dance—and, oh, Mother, his idea of the Boston! Hop
is no word for it! He’s <span class='it'>much</span> worse than Daddy.
But a perfect <span class='it'>peach</span> from Princeton who was on my
other side came to my rescue——’</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Prentice, why do you suppose Victor Campion
never married?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I don’t know. He was too much of a spoiled
baby, I guess, first his mother and then his sisters, always
protecting him and admiring him until he was
too tender to do anything but run home and hide,
when anything real started to happen to him. And
then he was supposed to be pretty much cut up over
Lucy Hawthorn, wasn’t he?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, I guess he was; but mercy, that was ages ago,
and she certainly wasn’t the only pebble on the beach.
And anyway, no man’s going to be faithful to one
woman all his life if she’s out of reach—you needn’t
tell me! Women do, but not men—it isn’t their
nature. No, I guess he just wasn’t the marrying kind,
or else as you say they made him too comfortable at
home.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Prentice made a vague conversational sound, his
eyes straying to his newspaper, but Fannie went on,
interested:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You know it isn’t only Victor himself, but I believe
the girls wouldn’t have been old maids if it
hadn’t been for him. Maggie never said so, but everyone
knew she broke her engagement so she could stay
and take care of him; and they never could go anywhere
or have pretty clothes or anything, because
everything had to be spent on Victor. You can’t
exactly blame him for being selfish, they never gave
him a chance to be anything else. Did they? Did
they, Prentice?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mm,” said Prentice, reading.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mother always said Mrs. Campion would have
married again if it hadn’t been for Victor. I remember
there was someone. Mrs. Campion came to see
Mother one day, and cried and said Victor was so sensitive
he needed especially tender treatment, and
Father said afterwards he needed a hairbrush applied
to the seat of his trousers.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s about right.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, it seems queer to think of such a mild little
man as Victor Campion having any influence on anybody.
But I can’t help feeling sorry for him. An old
bachelor seems so sad, somehow. Sort of forlorn.
And can you imagine—even imagine life without any
children, Prentice?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can easily, and it sounds like a paradise of
peace.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, go on! Skidoo!” she cried, slapping him affectionately.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Fannie! What language!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, it’s what Pren and Bobby say all the time—‘twenty-three,
skidoo.’ ” She returned his goodbye
kiss, as she put a pansy in his buttonhole, and then
went back for just one more waffle with butter and
maple syrup. She knew she oughtn’t to eat waffles,
she was so fat. Elizabeth was always telling her so.
“You mustn’t let yourself go to seed, Mother.” Oh,
well! She poured out just a little more coffee, with
three lumps and cream.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor Campion! Poor old thing! She was sorry
for the girls, too. Isabel Leaf said they had had a
dreadful time, with May’s suicide, and being poor,
and having to sell The Maples. The Maples
without the Campions, the Campions without The
Maples—impossible to imagine! “We used to have
such fun there!” she thought. “Poor old Maggie! It
would be nice to ask her to Hartford for a visit—give
her a good rest, and feed her up.” She would do it
sometime—or at least she would if ever a time came
when she wasn’t too occupied with her family. The
family came first, of course.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Poor Maggie! Poor Lily! Poor Victor! Never
to marry, never to have children and grandchildren—how
awful! No one to love. Perhaps, she had gone
to seed, as Elizabeth said, but what did it matter,
when such fresh young flowers were springing up so
thickly around her?</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her thoughts floated from the Campions to little
Francie in her wild rose costume—to the dress she was
embroidering for Elizabeth’s baby—the day’s menus—Pren
would be bringing the Bangs boys home for
dinner—Bobby back from Andover tomorrow—the
sunshine wrapping her feet in soft warm gold—the
pot of pansies on the breakfast table. One was dead,
and in her mind she stretched out her hand and
pinched it off, but her body was too comfortable to
move. She sank into an agreeable torpor.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Victor lay in his bath, dreamily blowing bubbles.
Nice to sleep late and dawdle over dressing on Sunday
morning. “ ‘Oh, waltz me around again, Willie.’ ”
he sang, making a beautiful lather.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Around, around, around!</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The music so dreamy, like peaches and creamy——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>He was going to do exercises every morning—that
was the way to keep fit. Sunday was the day to be
lazy, but he’d start tomorrow. Twenty minutes brisk
exercises every morning—what if it did mean getting
up a little earlier? The very thought made him feel
as glowing and strong-willed as if he had gone
through them already.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Oh, Willie Fitzgibbons he used to sell ribbons,</p>
<p class='line0'>And stand up all day on his feet——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Where was his blue tie with the cream-colored
dots?</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘He got very spoony on Madeleine Mooney——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Last night he had come home old and tired. The
dinner had been hard work. He had told all his
funniest stories, and waited with an ear anxiously
cocked for the laughter that did not come. Polite,
vague smiles—“Oh, that’s <span class='it'>perfect</span>!” And afterwards,
at the dance! No one really danced any more.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But at home again, where all things—the burning
lamp, the doughnuts and milk waiting under a napkin
on the hall table, his turned-back bed, light, and food,
and rest—were symbols of love for him, he revived,
he grew happy again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie was watering her plants in the bay window.
A rubber bulb sprinkler filled itself—blub-blub-blub—in
a pail of warm water standing on the newspapers
spread on the floor under the dripping fringe of ivy,
and the room was full of sunshine and the fragrance
of sprinkled geraniums.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You sound as lively as a cricket. Have a good
time last night? Wait, I’ll bring in your breakfast——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She loved Sunday mornings, when she could let him
sleep late, when he had time to talk with her as he
lingered over his breakfast. She made him a brown
and gold puff of omelet while he was eating his
orange, and brought it in to him still sputtering and
heaving.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Guess who I sat next at dinner—Fannie Leaf’s
daughter, the youngest one. She’s visiting Robert and
Isabel.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Fannie Leaf’s daughter! Well, I never! What’s
she like?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A pretty little thing—looks the way Fannie used
to, pink cheeks and dimples and curly light hair.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, wasn’t that nice for her, to sit next you and
have you know her mother and father and everything—here,
let me give you some more coffee. Did she give
you any news of Fannie and Prentice?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Some new grandchildren since last we heard. A
grandmother! Poor old Fannie, I bet she doesn’t
like that. Makes her sound pretty old, don’t it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It don’t seem possible. I always think of her the
way she was on her wedding day, so slender and
laughing—the prettiest bride I ever saw, I think, and
the youngest looking. But Isabel Leaf says she’s aged
awfully, and gotten so fat and settled—what do you
want? Matches? Wait a minute, I’ll get them for
you. Well, I can’t get over how nice it was for her
having you for a partner!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She’s not much of a dancer, though. We didn’t
get on very well together.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, if she couldn’t dance with you, she couldn’t
dance with anyone.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He went happily into the living-room, to the sunshine
and the Sunday papers. Last night he had been
hurt by Margery Page’s straying attention, vague
answers, and frequent stiffenings of the jaw that
meant yawns suppressed. She had had plenty to say
to the Princeton sophomore on her other side, plenty
of things to giggle about. And although she and
Victor certainly had not gotten on very well when
they were dancing together, he had seen her swooping
and dipping almost professionally with other partners.
But no matter what suspicion stole on him in the outside
world that he was not as young as he used to be,
that he was not as fascinating as he wanted to be, at
home where they loved and admired him so he found
the Fountain of Youth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He hunted out the funny papers, and lit a fresh
cigarette. She had been as pretty as a picture, with
all those yellow curls. Perhaps, she had just been
shy with an older man, “A man of the world,” he
thought rather complacently. He hadn’t anything
especial to do today—he might go in to Wilmington
after lunch and call on her. It would be polite, and
she would be pleased.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t10336'>XXX</h1>

<p class='pindent'>War swept the world. “Oh, if <span class='it'>only</span> I could go
over and drive an ambulance!” Maggie thought,
longing to be in the thick of things, longing to fling
out her life in service in the mud, under the star-shells,
and having to be content with knitting socks and
going without sugar. Lily couldn’t manage socks, but
she knitted sweaters—sweaters for giants, vast, enormous,
tiny sweaters for brownies. And yet the directions
were always the same—she couldn’t understand
why they turned out so different, or why they had so
many openwork places. “More holy than righteous,”
said Maggie, picking up Lily’s dropped stitches. Lily
wanted to fasten little cheering notes to the sweaters,
but she was too shy. She talked all the time about
“Our Boys,” and sang, with pleasurable tears in her
eyes:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘There’s a long long trail a-winding</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To the land of my dreams,</p>
<p class='line0'>Where the nightingale is singing,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And a white moon beams——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>She thought it was the sweetest song she had ever
heard. It was dashing to have Maggie say one day,</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think so much of that song—or maybe it’s
the way you’re singing it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor was on committees for raising money, for
giving patriotic balls, for arranging benefit performances.
He had never been so important and busy in
his life, and when peace came he was a pricked balloon.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Saturday Market in Wilmington! The farmers’
wagons were pulled up along the curb, chickens and
eggs, butter, and boxes of blackberries, and tight
bunches of red and yellow flowers were spread out for
sale. Women with baskets on their arms priced, bargained,
tasted, stopped to gossip in midstream.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What you asking for peaches? Kinda green, ain’t
they?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let’s try a piece of your cheese——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Rich women, poor women, white women, black
women, filling their market baskets—sea green cabbages,
limp-necked poultry, a little wooden boat of
cottage-cheese, a fist of yellow banana fingers, sometimes
for the spirit’s sake a bunch of marigolds and
bee-balm, solid as worsted work.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie shifted her heavy basket from arm to arm.
A couple of canteloupes, and then she could go over
to the library and rest until it was time to catch the
car for home.</p>

<p class='pindent'>While she was pressing her thumb into the cantaloupes
and smelling them, the pain came again, so that
she could hardly stand. She set her teeth, feeling the
sweat spring out on her upper lip. If she could just
live through this second—the next—the next——</p>

<p class='pindent'>The pain became the center of everything, gathered
all creation into itself. Streets, houses, forests, seas,
the sun and sky, concentrated in that one spot of torture.
Then it ebbed away, left her. She managed
to get her basket over to Market Street and up the
long flight of library steps, she managed to change
Lily’s library book.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Each time she thought it wouldn’t come again. But
it was coming oftener, and it was worse. She faced it,
sitting with her basket at her feet, turning over the
pages of something—“The Musical Courier.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She was afraid to go to the doctor, that was the
truth. But how silly, when probably he’d say “Don’t
eat tomatoes,” or “Drink hot water,” and she’d be all
right again. She had nearly fainted on the street just
now—she certainly would have to do something.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And she made up her mind to go to the doctor now,
before she lost her courage. What doctor? She
didn’t know. They hadn’t had one for so long. She
would telephone Isabel Leaf and ask her who was
good.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I hope it’s nothing serious!” Isabel said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, no, nothing at all, really——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We always go to Dr. Henderson on Delaware
Avenue. Why don’t you come out to lunch, and then
I’ll send you down to him in the motor?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But now that she had made up her mind she wanted
to get to the doctor’s right away. It would be more
restful to have some ice cream at Jones’s, afterwards,
all reassured and happy. She might even go on a
spree and see the Charlie Chaplin movie at the Queen,
if she didn’t have to wait too long.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She felt so well by the time she got to Dr. Henderson’s
that it seemed ridiculous to go in—still, she was
here, and she might as well. “I wish I’d asked Isabel
what he charges,” she thought, with a nervous look
into her purse.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The waiting room was quite full of people—masked
people, hiding from each other, covering themselves
up, coughing now and then, or speaking in low voices,
but so still most of the time that the clock sounded
loud. Waiting patients, as much a part of the furnishing
of the room as the sepia photographs of
cathedrals on the walls, the aspidistra in its brass jardinière,
the pile of “National Geographic Magazines”—only
showing that they were real by the frightened
eyes that looked out sometimes through the slits in the
masks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie looked at pictures of the fishing industry
of Norway. She looked at pictures of Yellowstone
Park. She looked at a copy of “Life,” reading the
jokes without taking in a word. My, it was getting
late! She glared suspiciously at newcomers—suppose
they got in ahead of her, somehow! At this rate she’d
be lucky if she caught the twenty minutes to four,
without stopping for anything to eat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then it was her turn—too soon, after all! Too
soon! She picked up her market basket and went in
to Dr. Henderson.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Lily had a sore throat and had spent the night with
a stocking-compress around it. But she was still as
hoarse as a crow in the morning, and dreadfully dejected—griddle-cakes
for breakfast, and it hurt her
too much to swallow them! So Maggie told her to
stay home from church, and she would put the flowers
on the altar.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She walked along the road to the church, the great
sheaf of white cosmos jutting out at one side, wagging
with every step.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She had cancer, and it was too late to operate.
That was his verdict, stripped of the kindness and encouragement
he had wrapped it in. Cancer—too late
to operate——</p>

<p class='pindent'>What pretty single dahlias in the Worthingtons’
garden—the color of raspberries and candlelight. Not
much like the dahlias she used to grow at The
Maples painted tin rosettes——</p>

<p class='pindent'>That meant she was dying. How queer! Maggie
Campion dying! But you weren’t dying when you
were walking to church in your best voile dress; when
you bothered to put on your best stockings, silk to just
below the knees, because it was Sunday; when you got
up earlier than anyone else in the house, and started
the fire and made griddle-cakes for breakfast.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Dying—dying. The word repeated itself to her,
monotonous as the beat of waves.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“Blow, bugle, blow, set the wild echoes flying,</p>
<p class='line0'>Blow, bugle; answer, echoes, dying, dying, dying.”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>The Tennyson tableaux—so long ago. Edward in
a tam-o’-shanter trimmed with his Aunt Jo’s plume—May
in silvery white, holding the silvery lilies—poor
Aunt Priscilla’s blue tail—Victor teasing May
about Edward—Edward——</p>

<p class='pindent'>There went the Willie Trewhitts all packed into
their new Ford coupé—not going towards church,
either. She nodded severely, and Willie, who had
been in her Sunday school class, reddened and looked
like an embarrassed little boy in spite of being a married
man and father of a family.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Communion Sunday. She went into the musty
little robing-room with its piles of dusty prayer books,
its framed yellowed photograph of old Mr. Page in
his vestments, and got out the white hangings. The
cosmos were almost lost in their feathery foliage—not
that many people would be there to see them. Everybody
went automobiling on Sundays nowadays, or
stayed at home and read the Sunday papers.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She brushed the fallen petals into the newspaper she
had wrapped around the wet stems, pausing to read an
advertisement for a marked-down sale of overcoats at
Gimbels’—Victor needed an overcoat badly. She
shook the petals out of the chancel window, put the
folded newspaper under her pew, and knelt, thinking
of nothing. Through the service she stood up, sat
down, knelt, not thinking, not feeling, numb.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“Bread of the world, in mercy broken,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Wine of the soul, in mercy shed,</p>
<p class='line0'>By whom the words of life were spoken,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And in whose death our sins are dead.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line0'>“Look on the heart by sorrow broken,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Look on the tears by sinners shed;——”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>And suddenly the beating waves crashed through,
drenching her with realization, with terror, submerging
her. Anguish and death——</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t bear it! I can’t bear it! I don’t want
to die!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And the answer came—did her ears hear it, or her
heart? She didn’t know.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is the bread which cometh down from heaven,
that a man may eat thereof, and not die.”</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“Bread of the world, in mercy broken,</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Wine of the soul——”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>He had died, so that she need never die. He had
promised!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall
never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never
thirst.” The bread of the body, the wine of the soul.
The wheat and grapes had had their roots in the earth,
but they had grown up towards heaven. The white
bread, the red wine; white as snow and red as fire—snow
and fire, winter and summer, death and life,
opposite and yet the same, part of eternity’s circle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But before the wheat becomes bread it must be
ground, before the grapes become wine they must be
crushed. They must be sacrificed, as Christ on the
Cross was sacrificed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Winter must come, and death. But the seed lives,
and rises again from the dark earth, from the grave.
The only way to life is through the door of death.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She knelt, hiding her streaming face in her arms,
shaken by terrible weeping. Her legs were too weak
to stand, but the Son of God, the Son of Man, came
down to her from his altar, bringing her his divine gift
of terror and beauty, his gift of sacrifice. And as she
accepted his gift he entered into her, and she into him,
he was everything, the bread, the wine, the sun in the
sky, the dust that danced in the sunbeams, her tear-soaked
handkerchief. “Lo, I am with you alway—”</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t10610'>XXXI</h1>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Where</span> you going, Maggie?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily squatted back on her heels. A small
limp pancake of home-made raffia hat, trimmed with
rosettes of red raffia topped her mild apple face, every
hair pin seemed about to spring from her hair, she
bristled with them like a hedgehog. She was digging
the holes for the new tulip bulbs—the bulbs of the red
and yellow parrot tulips, all feathered and fringed,
that Mrs. Detweiler had sent from her garden.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Heigho for meddlers!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>That was all Maggie would say. Where <span class='it'>could</span> she
be going, in her best voile, and with her card-case? “I
think it’s real mean in you not to tell me!” Lily called
after her placidly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was quite a relief to have her go out, she had been
so cross and brisk for the last week or two, cleaning
the house, putting up preserves—what had gotten into
her? “I think I’ll go and have a little lie-down while
she’s gone,” Lily said to herself, scrambling to her
feet. She found the new “Ladies’ Home Journal,”
tucked a lump of sugar into her cheek, and lowered
herself onto the sofa. Oh, how nice to be able to rest
and enjoy herself without feeling guilty, as she did
when Maggie was dragging the furniture around or
struggling to cut up quinces.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Spear was in the midst of a rubber of bridge
when the maid brought in Maggie’s calling card, ivory
with age. “Oh, bother!” she said. “Still, I suppose
I’ll have to see the poor old thing.” And she called
to her daughter, who was sprawling on the sofa reading
“Town Topics” and wishing they’d have more
about Wilmington people in it, “Take my hand, Dot.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie had come to say good-bye to The Maples
while she could. She knew the time was growing
short. The maid had prudently hooked the screen
door, leaving the shabby stranger outside in case she
was just trying to sell something, but it hadn’t been
like being locked out of her own home. Everything
was so changed. The fountain gone, the peony beds
gone, the grey house painted white, with awnings of
orange Italian sail-cloth. “Pity’s sake!” thought
Maggie as she waited. “I don’t think much of their
wonderful improvements!” Homesick for The
Maples, on hot days remembering it veiled in snow,
on cold days aching for it gilded with sunshine, netted
down with shadows, she had felt that she would know
a leaf from home, out of all the other leaves in the
world. And now here was home itself, and it was
strange to her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>This Mamma’s parlor? This room full of sleek
rich-looking women, white terriers with green leather
collars, magazines, open candy boxes, cigarette smoke,
noise——</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know Miss Campion wants to see her garden.
Miss Campion’s the most <span class='it'>marvellous</span> gardener, I’m
petrified to have her see all the mistakes I <span class='it'>know</span> we’ve
made. Of course, I needn’t tell <span class='it'>you</span> that at this time
of the year—oh, Simpson! Turn on the fountain for
Miss Campion, will you? And I wonder if you could
cut us a few flowers?” She added aside, “I’m terrified
of my gardener! I wouldn’t dare pick a flower without
his permission.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, no! Stop him! No, don’t pick me any—I
have to go. Thank you just the same. Don’t come
with me—I’ll cut across——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She was desperate to get away. “What’s the matter
with the crazy old thing?” Violet Spear wondered.
Keeping away for twelve years, and then acting like
this. And not a single word about all the improvements.
Not much like her brother, who was almost
painfully polite when he came to dine or to play
bridge. But she did look sick—such a color, and so
thin that her clothes hung on her as if they were hanging
from the wooden shoulders of a coat-hanger. She
almost asked her to stay to tea—then she thought
irritably, “No, if she’s so crazy to go, let her!” She
was a kind woman, but her new rubber reducing corset
wasn’t by any means the dream of comfort she had expected,
her satin slippers were soaking from the wet
grass, and she felt that little muffled beat in her temple
that meant one of her bad headaches was coming.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie hurried up the lawn, straining towards
escape. The beech tree was the same, anyway. And
as she looked at it the mist of strangeness lifted, blew
away, she saw her home again. Nothing was changed,
really. Nothing was lost. Childhood’s sky arched up
from childhood’s river, exquisitely reassuring. Small,
chunky sunset clouds filled the west, cobblestones from
the golden streets. Red leaves fell about her in a
sudden shower—the red of the wine and the blood of
sacrifice. They were falling back to the earth from
which they had sprung, making ready for winter’s
death—and yet nothing died, nothing! In the spring
the buds would swell again.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>“Lily!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Lily’s light whistling snores went on peacefully,
so Maggie dragged herself out of bed, and downstairs
to the pantry, for some cracked ice.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They had Lossie’s daughter Rose to do the cooking
now that Maggie had to stay in bed. And her beau
was there again—there was a light in the kitchen
shining through a haze of tobacco smoke. Rose’s
alarm clock, waiting on a pantry chair to be taken up
to bed, held up its black hands in horror at the lateness
of the hour. “He ought to have gone home ever
so long ago!” it said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a panicky moment for the young ones. No
mice were ever more still, and then—<span class='it'>crash!</span> One of
the mice knocked something over with its tail. “I
ought to speak to them,” Maggie thought, getting her
ice. But she put out the pantry light and climbed up
the stairs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The trained nurse was coming in the morning.
Maggie had had to give up fighting against having her.
Long before Lily was awake, she was up tidying her
room, making the bed with fresh sheets, putting on her
best nightgown, getting ready to be nursed. Lily had
tried hard, but things were in an awful muddle. From
time to time Maggie stopped, crouched in a knot of
pain, her wet forehead pressed against the marble
slab of the bureau. Then she straightened herself,
gathered up sticky medicine spoons with her nose
wrinkling in disgust, fished the wrapped circles of
combings from the waste-basket, went to the linen
closet for a fresh towel to cover her bedside table,
before she climbed back into bed and gave herself up
to the flame of anguish that was consuming her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was better after Miss McMurtrie came. Sometimes
Maggie was given something to stop the pain,
and she could smile at Lily’s and Victor’s scared,
solemn faces that stretched into wide answering smiles
when they saw she was looking at them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Kind of nice to lie here in a nice warm bed and
not have to do anything, ain’t it?” she asked them.
Nice not to have the alarm clock slash across her sleep,
not to have to stagger up into the cold dark mornings,
not to have to keep going when her legs felt like butter
in the sun, nice to lie watching the gently falling snow.
Oh, if she could only make herself believe that it was!</p>

<p class='pindent'>She wasn’t afraid of dying any more, for herself,
but how could she leave the children?</p>

<p class='pindent'>The love that had lighted her life shone for her as
she looked back through the years—Edward—Papa—Victor.
Memories came like the great silver bubbles
that waver slowly up from the dark depths of a spring.
Going for chestnuts with Edward when the air smelt
of frost and the dead grasses were gold and silver—there
was a film of ice over the fallen leaves in the
shadowy places, the small green hedgehogs of burs
spilled out their brown satin nuts. Everywhere was
the feeling of hidden life—warm furry little bodies,
bright eyes, and pattering feet. And suddenly he and
she were dropping their baskets, rushing into each
other’s arms, not able to stay apart another instant——</p>

<p class='pindent'>Papa lifting her up to ride in front of him on his
horse——</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I won’t let you fall, Muggins.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Pooh! I’m not a bit scared! I could ride Gipsy
bareback, Papa! I could ride standing up, if you’d
let me!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She and the children in the spring woods, where the
dogwood trees in blossom floated like wreaths of cloud.
She was trying to get unsteady little Victor across the
stream on the wobbly stepping stones—<span class='it'>splash!</span> In
they both went, while May and Lily screamed with
excitement, and Trusty barked fit to kill himself——</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then she was holding the baby close to her
heart. Mamma had given him to her wrapped in
shawls. “Be careful of Baby, Maggie——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Miss Lily! Miss Lily!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She’s just gone over to the store, Miss McMurtrie.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think you’d better come right away, Mr.
Campion——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He ran upstairs, his heart knocking against his side,
and tiptoed into Maggie’s room. And something tore
him, made him fling himself down by her bed, crying,
“Maggie, don’t die! Don’t die!” But for the first
time in his life she did not answer him.</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t10826'>XXXII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Lily loved the Sunday papers. Lying on the sofa
covered like an elderly Babe in the Wood with
papers instead of leaves, she read every word about
Queen Mary’s toques and Princess Mary Viscountess
Lascelle’s baby, how to arrange salad in green pepper
canoes, whether skirts were going to be long or short,
and what “Doug and Mary” were doing at the
moment. She read selected poems, and often cut them
out raggedly with a hair pin and lost them down the
crack of the sofa. She looked at the funny pictures
and made baffled tries at the puzzles, like a moth
bumping softly against a window pane. She read anything
about Harvard, in the sports section, on account
of Papa and Victor, and looked at pictures of football
heroes, thinking how their mothers must worry.
She read special articles about chorus girls winning the
mystic love of Hindu Swamis. And she always read
straight through the society columns. In fact she read
everything in the newspapers except the news.</p>

<p class='pindent'>So it was she who discovered that Lucy Hawthorn
was back in America. It was quite a shock to come
upon the name of some one who was a real person to
her, among all the well known but unseen Vanderbilts
and Whitneys and Astors. “Countess de la Villeblanche,
who will be remembered as Lucy Hawthorn——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her first impulse was not to tell Victor. Lucy home
again and a widow—she’d be certain to grab him if he
gave her half a chance! And she saw herself alone
and old. Her better nature triumphed in a minute—besides,
she would burst if she kept such an exciting
bit of news untold. But it would be just as well to
have things especially pleasant when she told him.
Somehow, though she tried so hard, home wasn’t the
same without Maggie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was having Sunday supper somewhere in Wilmington.
She would sit up for him, and make some
candy to have for a surprise when he came in.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Out in the kitchen she and a little mouse gave each
other a good scare—she jumped so that she knocked
over the vanilla bottle. Oh dear! Tears came to her
eyes. But she got up quite a lot of vanilla with a
spoon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was so still that she could hear the tinkle of falling
icicles, pure and exquisite sound. Alone in the
house at night. It was sort of scary when you let
yourself think about it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Alone in the house. And she and Victor weren’t as
young as they used to be. Suppose—something should
happen to one of them? What would the other do?
Alone in the house, alone in the world.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They said it was a sign of getting old when time
slipped past faster and faster. It made her dizzy, the
world was spinning around so these days, spinning
from blue and gold to black and silver, so fast that not
a drop was spilled from the rivers and seas, not a pot
of flowers fell from a window sill, not a bird’s egg fell
from its nest. Standing in the quiet kitchen that
suddenly opened out vast and unfamiliar, she felt herself
clinging head down to the whirling globe that
would some day spin her off altogether.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In a panic she began to clatter pots and spoons, to
sing a hymn they had sung when they were children.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Jesus, tender Shepherd, hear me;</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bless Thy little lamb tonight;</p>
<p class='line0'>Through the darkness be Thou near me——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>The house grew friendly again. “Tickticktick!”
said the clock, brisk and cheerful. She could hear the
mice scratching in the walls—it sounded as if they
were having fun together. The boiling chocolate made
a thick bubbling sound and smelt delicious.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘Boil till it forms in a soft ball in cold water,’ ”
she said aloud. Good little soft balls! She ate five
or six of them before she suddenly remembered that it
was time to pour the candy out and she had forgotten
to butter the soup plates.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It turned nice and hard—a pleasant surprise, so
often her candy had to be eaten with a spoon. She
marked it off into squares, sampling a good many.
Fudge or caramels? She couldn’t make up her mind.
She filled a dish and took it in to the living-room,
where she had a game of her favorite Tiddley-winks—another
game—another. She wasn’t quite sure about
playing Tiddley-winks on Sunday, but she was so
lonely in the evening without Maggie, she had to do
something. Just <span class='it'>one</span> more game. And as she played
her hand strayed from the dish to her mouth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When Victor came in, wrapped in cold March air,
the dish was empty. She couldn’t believe it!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, <span class='it'>Victor</span>! I made them all for you—for a
surprise!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She could have cried, if she hadn’t remembered her
other surprise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Guess what!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well—Lucy Hawthorn’s back in New York—oh,
I humbly beg her pardon, I should have said
Her Royal Highness, the Countess of de la Villeblanche——”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Lucy home again! The little feet that had carried
her so far were bringing her back to him. And he saw
himself receiving into his arms that piteous and fragile
figure, heard her say brokenly:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor—at last——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Should he write to her? He tore up three letters,
and then wrote one light in tone but with hidden
depths, he really did think, and posted it in a perfect
panic. And back came a note from Lucy, so charming
that it sounded as if she had come back to America
just for his sake.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He decided to go to New York to see her. He could
go in the morning and come back after supper, and
then he needn’t tell Lily anything about it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Would she be changed? But people didn’t change
really. He was the same Victor who had come to
New York to see Lucy years ago—he felt as young,
if he admitted the truth, he felt as nervous. He walked
from the Pennsylvania Station to the Ritz, dreamily
escaping death among the taxi-cabs. Coming for a
moment out of his absorption in the queer feeling
growing in the pit of his stomach, he noticed a man
with a tray of flowers for sale, among them a few little
bunches of lilies-of-the-valley with leaves as tender
and pale a green as butterfly wings. Lilies-of-the-valley.
“Lucy’s flowers.” Their sweetness would
build a bridge across the years, they would say the
things he could not. He bought a bunch and slipped
it in its screw of waxed paper into his overcoat pocket.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then he was in Lucy’s apartment at the Ritz,
and Lucy herself was holding his hand between hers.
Lucy? But where was Lucy? This fat old woman
with her powered face and reddened mouth and her
queer coppery hair, wearing no jewels but the three
strands of great pearls laid on the shelf of her bosom,
and draped in heaviest crêpe, mourning as one who
eats caviare, oysters, sole <span class='it'>marguery</span>, mourns because
Christ died upon a Friday, what had she done with
Lucy? Was his slim white dryad really there, imprisoned
in this tree with its roots in the earth?</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor! After all these years—no, dreadful man,
don’t dare to say how many! My daughter Madame
de Griche—Mrs. Portal, Mrs. Lee, General Scudworth—my
grandson Marcel—Monsieur Campion is
a dear and old friend of Grand’maman’s, <span class='it'>p’tit</span>—my
little grand-daughter Lucie. Tea! Tea! Ring for
tea, Colette, <span class='it'>chérie</span>. Tell them heaps of <span class='it'>confitures</span>!
Don’t sit on Galette or Chrysanthème, anyone——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Madame de Griche, ugly and chic, her black hair
cut like a boy’s, the pearls in her ears and the cigarette
drooping from her lacquer-red mouth startlingly white
against her yellow skin, was pouring the tea. There
were dishes heaped with the ruby and topaz of jam
and marmalade, mauve tin boxes from Sherry’s stood
open, disclosing chocolates and small rich cakes, the
room was full of flowers wilting a little in the steam
heat—white lilac really swooning, blue and yellow
iris, powdery-sweet mimosa. The two silky, fat toy
dogs, like lumps of half-melted toffee, were yapping
and being fed chocolates by Lucy, whose stern little
grand-daughter was chiding her. “<span class='it'>Non, non, Grand’maman,
c’est méchant! Va-tu, Chrysanthème!
Chrysanthème! Galette! Taissez-vous, mauvaises
chiens!</span>” Boxes were arriving, the telephone ringing,
Marcel’s high voice was crying into it, “Alloh, Alloh!”
Old friends rushed in and were embraced.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Le téléphone, Maman!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lucy took the teapot. “How do you take your tea,
Victor?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Two lumps and cream, please.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So she gave him lemon, saying, “Now we must have
a long, long talk about the dear old days!” But
things kept happening.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then his body followed his spirit that had long
ago hurried away towards home. The March air
flowed cool and delicious over his hot face, he let his
mouth relax from its stretch of polite and nervous
smile. He could catch the six o’clock train, he would
be home before ten!</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had let his bunch of lilies-of-the-valley stay
crushed in his pocket. They had been too gentle.
And he thought sadly, complacently:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Poor Lucy, how fat she has grown—and how old!”</p>

<!--se:split--><h1 id='t11050'>XXXIII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Lily didn’t really mind getting old. Not that
sixty-six was old, but it certainly wasn’t young.
Sometimes, when the house was cold and she shivered
in spite of her shabby blue sweater, or when her mayonnaise
“went back on her,” or she couldn’t put off going
to the dentist any longer, she was sad. But there were
market days when she stayed in Wilmington and had
a chocolate sundae at Reynold’s for lunch, and bought
a quarter of a pound of bitter-chocolate peppermints to
eat at the movies. There were happy nights of early to
bed, with a hot-water bag and a moving picture
magazine—beautiful Mr. Valentino in a sash and a
broad-brimmed hat, Barbara La Marr’s velvet mouth,
and stories about how much those nice Talmadge girls
loved their mother, the innocence of darling little
Jackie Coogan, and what a good husband Mr. Menjou
was in spite of his lifted eyebrows. “How good
everybody is, when you really <span class='it'>know</span>,” thought Lily.
And there were the stars’ bedrooms—she pored over
every detail. Dolls in hoopskirts that hatched out
telephones, cushions trimmed with bunches of silk
fruit—rather knobby for the head? Still, as they
were mostly strewn about the floor, perhaps you
weren’t meant to put your head down on them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And going to the postoffice was exciting—not many
letters, but she sent for so many things that there was
almost always mail for her. Samples of perfumes, of
cold cream, of note paper, “Orchid” and “Willow-Green”
and “Straw,” catalogues of Dutch bulbs and
peasant furniture, booklets about trips around the
world.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And there was always church, the changing of the
colored hangings, flowers on the altar, the luxurious
warm bath of the soul of her prayers.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Victor hated growing old, and fought against it,
jumping off cars before they stopped, and walking
jauntily away, refusing to wear an overcoat when he
was blue with cold—<span class='it'>wanting</span> to be young.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I will do exercises and take cold plunges,” he decided,
not for the first time. “That’s the way for a
fellow to keep young.” And morning after morning,
Lily heard him puffing, panting, granting—thump—thump—thump—heard
the water roaring into the tub,
and then the splash that meant most of it was leaping
out again, hastily followed by Victor. She was
dreadfully worried about the parlor ceiling.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Wonderful the feeling of vitality it gives you,”
he told the bored men at the office. “I get the greatest
reaction out of an ice-cold plunge, just as cold as it
comes, no luke-warm baths for yours truly, I leave
those for the old fellows.” He would stop the most
casual acquaintances to tell them about his exercises
and cold baths. “Why don’t <span class='it'>you</span> try it, old man?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But gradually they tapered off and stopped. He
began to drink buttermilk. He had read somewhere
that buttermilk would keep you young practically
forever.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His clothes were getting old, too. There was his
fur-lined coat, with the fur collar, that he hadn’t
realized wasn’t still something to be proud of, until
one day someone said to him:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You ought to give that coat back to the rat and let
it finish it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was as scrubby as that! So scrubby that a friend
could think he was just wearing it to be funny. And
he pretended he was. He thrust a hand into its breast,
put out one foot, and declaimed:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Methinks, you wot not that you address Hamfat,
the famous tragedian!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But his heart was crying.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There weren’t as many invitations as there used to
be. People weren’t entertaining as much as they had
entertained before the war, he told himself. But he
went everywhere he was asked, and he paid a great
many calls.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Four members of Dorothy Spear’s house party were
playing Mah Jongg at the top of their lungs, four
more were dancing to “It Ain’t Goin’ to Rain No
More,” played by the gramophone. Dorothy herself
lay stretched on the sofa, slender legs in flesh-colored
silk stockings showing to the knees, waving a cigarette
in a long holder at Gregory Hart to emphasize a
few remarks on suppressed desires.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Love your cigarette holder, Dot!” Bunny Tempest
called as she fox-trotted past.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You ought to see Edwina’s—hers is so long she
has to have a flute case to carry it in. Throw us
another Lucky, Tommy!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Two more friends appeared in the doorway, the girl
slender and straight as a pencil, her painted baby face
framed in a tight cloche and a great roll of fur collar,
the boy voluminous in raccoon coat, with much pale
blue muffler.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hello, you dumb-bells!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hello, yourselves! Don’t you look Ritzy? Take
off a few clothes—oh, my <span class='it'>dear</span>, what a <span class='it'>per</span>fect boyish
bob! Oh, it looks simply <span class='it'>darling</span>, I’m <span class='it'>crazy</span> about it!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She looks like a drowned kitten.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, ankle along, you Victorian! Don’t pay any
attention to him, Mariette, if he <span class='it'>is</span> your fiasco!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Spear paused at the door on the way upstairs
for a nap, and said resignedly:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dorothy, your legs.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Nice, aren’t they?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Pull down your skirt, darling.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Listen to my <span class='it'>precious</span> mother! She’s a scream,
boys and girls. Don’t you think she’s a <span class='it'>scream</span>? You
are, you know, Ma!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Play something else—‘Doo Wacky Doo’ or something.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Come and dance, Dot.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The hurrying excitement of the music shook them—a
queer stab went through her as Gregory held her
closer. She was almost too breathless to say
mockingly:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, you passionate orchid-crusher!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Look at King Tut coming up the drive!” someone
called from the window seat, and someone else cried,
“What is it? I <span class='it'>ask</span> you, what <span class='it'>is</span> it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Dorothy looked over their heads. Mr. Victor
Campion in his high silk hat, out making Sunday afternoon
calls.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, my dears, he’s our hardy perennial bachelor.
Stop the music—grab Thompson, someone, before he
gets to the door—if we once let him in he’ll stay to
tea and Lord knows how much longer. Thompson—Thompson—not
at home——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She watched him turn away, and an unexpected
pang of pity stirred in her heart.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This used to be his home—it must be queer to have
us in it. He and three old maid sisters used to live
here. One of them went dippy from sex repression—just
like what we were talking about, Greg. Too bad
they didn’t have her psyched. There’s only one left,
and she certainly is the hole in the doughnut. Well—might
as well turn on the music.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor walked down the drive. Had he heard
smothered giggling when the door was opened? There
was the beech tree they used to play under, Maggie
and May and Lily and he. Should he make some more
calls? No, he was tired, and it was chilly and late.
There was snow in that sky, though a cold pink colored
the west. Sunset. Soon it would be dark.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily was watching for him at the window, standing
over the register, her skirts ballooning with heat. She
ran to the door to let him in.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Victor, you did look so nice coming along the
road! I always think there’s no one in the world looks
as nice in a silk hat as you!”</p>

