<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-32" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h2>
			<p>Lily loved the Sunday papers. Lying on the sofa covered like an elderly Babe in the Wood with papers instead of leaves, she read every word about Queen MaryвҖҷs toques and Princess Mary Viscountess LascelleвҖҷs baby, how to arrange salad in green pepper canoes, whether skirts were going to be long or short, and what вҖңDoug and MaryвҖқ were doing at the moment. She read selected poems, and often cut them out raggedly with a hair pin and lost them down the crack of the sofa. She looked at the funny pictures and made baffled tries at the puzzles, like a moth bumping softly against a window pane. She read anything about Harvard, in the sports section, on account of Papa and Victor, and looked at pictures of football heroes, thinking how their mothers must worry. She read special articles about chorus girls winning the mystic love of Hindu Swamis. And she always read straight through the society columns. In fact she read everything in the newspapers except the news.</p>
			<p>So it was she who discovered that Lucy Hawthorn was back in America. It was quite a shock to come upon the name of some one who was a real person to her, among all the well known but unseen Vanderbilts and Whitneys and Astors. вҖңCountess de la Villeblanche, who will be remembered as Lucy HawthornвҒ вҖ”вҖқ</p>
			<p>Her first impulse was not to tell Victor. Lucy home again and a widowвҒ вҖ”sheвҖҷd be certain to grab him if he gave her half a chance! And she saw herself alone and old. Her better nature triumphed in a minuteвҒ вҖ”besides, she would burst if she kept such an exciting bit of news untold. But it would be just as well to have things especially pleasant when she told him. Somehow, though she tried so hard, home wasnвҖҷt the same without Maggie.</p>
			<p>He was having Sunday supper somewhere in Wilmington. She would sit up for him, and make some candy to have for a surprise when he came in.</p>
			<p>Out in the kitchen she and a little mouse gave each other a good scareвҒ вҖ”she jumped so that she knocked over the vanilla bottle. Oh dear! Tears came to her eyes. But she got up quite a lot of vanilla with a spoon.</p>
			<p>It was so still that she could hear the tinkle of falling icicles, pure and exquisite sound. Alone in the house at night. It was sort of scary when you let yourself think about it.</p>
			<p>Alone in the house. And she and Victor werenвҖҷt as young as they used to be. SupposeвҒ вҖ”something should happen to one of them? What would the other do? Alone in the house, alone in the world.</p>
			<p>They said it was a sign of getting old when time slipped past faster and faster. It made her dizzy, the world was spinning around so these days, spinning from blue and gold to black and silver, so fast that not a drop was spilled from the rivers and seas, not a pot of flowers fell from a window sill, not a birdвҖҷs egg fell from its nest. Standing in the quiet kitchen that suddenly opened out vast and unfamiliar, she felt herself clinging head down to the whirling globe that would some day spin her off altogether.</p>
			<p>In a panic she began to clatter pots and spoons, to sing a hymn they had sung when they were children.</p>
			<div class="literal-container" style="">
				<div class="literal">
					<!-- rend=';' -->
					<p class="line0">вҖңвҖҠвҖҳJesus, tender Shepherd, hear me;</p>
					<p class="line0">Bless Thy little lamb tonight;</p>
					<p class="line0">Through the darkness be Thou near meвҒ вҖ”вҖҷвҖҠвҖқ</p>
				</div>
			</div>
			<!-- end rend -->
			<p>The house grew friendly again. вҖңTickticktick!вҖқ said the clock, brisk and cheerful. She could hear the mice scratching in the wallsвҒ вҖ”it sounded as if they were having fun together. The boiling chocolate made a thick bubbling sound and smelt delicious.</p>
			<p>вҖңвҖҠвҖҳBoil till it forms in a soft ball in cold water,вҖҷвҖҠвҖқ she said aloud. Good little soft balls! She ate five or six of them before she suddenly remembered that it was time to pour the candy out and she had forgotten to butter the soup plates.</p>
			<p>It turned nice and hardвҒ вҖ”a pleasant surprise, so often her candy had to be eaten with a spoon. She marked it off into squares, sampling a good many. Fudge or caramels? She couldnвҖҷt make up her mind. She filled a dish and took it in to the living-room, where she had a game of her favorite Tiddley-winksвҒ вҖ”another gameвҒ вҖ”another. She wasnвҖҷt quite sure about playing Tiddley-winks on Sunday, but she was so lonely in the evening without Maggie, she had to do something. Just <em>one</em> more game. And as she played her hand strayed from the dish to her mouth.</p>
			<p>When Victor came in, wrapped in cold March air, the dish was empty. She couldnвҖҷt believe it!</p>
			<p>вҖңOh, <em>Victor</em>! I made them all for youвҒ вҖ”for a surprise!вҖқ</p>
			<p>She could have cried, if she hadnвҖҷt remembered her other surprise.</p>
			<p>вҖңGuess what!вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңWhat?вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңWellвҒ вҖ”Lucy HawthornвҖҷs back in New YorkвҒ вҖ”oh, I humbly beg her pardon, I should have said Her Royal Highness, the Countess of de la VilleblancheвҒ вҖ”вҖқ</p>
			<hr class="tbk"/>
			<p>Lucy home again! The little feet that had carried her so far were bringing her back to him. And he saw himself receiving into his arms that piteous and fragile figure, heard her say brokenly:</p>
			<p>вҖңVictorвҒ вҖ”at lastвҒ вҖ”вҖқ</p>
			<p>Should he write to her? He tore up three letters, and then wrote one light in tone but with hidden depths, he really did think, and posted it in a perfect panic. And back came a note from Lucy, so charming that it sounded as if she had come back to America just for his sake.</p>
			<p>He decided to go to New York to see her. He could go in the morning and come back after supper, and then he neednвҖҷt tell Lily anything about it.</p>
			<p>Would she be changed? But people didnвҖҷt change really. He was the same Victor who had come to New York to see Lucy years agoвҒ вҖ”he felt as young, if he admitted the truth, he felt as nervous. He walked from the Pennsylvania Station to the Ritz, dreamily escaping death among the taxicabs. Coming for a moment out of his absorption in the queer feeling growing in the pit of his stomach, he noticed a man with a tray of flowers for sale, among them a few little bunches of lilies-of-the-valley with leaves as tender and pale a green as butterfly wings. Lilies-of-the-valley. вҖңLucyвҖҷs flowers.вҖқ Their sweetness would build a bridge across the years, they would say the things he could not. He bought a bunch and slipped it in its screw of waxed paper into his overcoat pocket.</p>
			<p>And then he was in LucyвҖҷs apartment at the Ritz, and Lucy herself was holding his hand between hers. Lucy? But where was Lucy? This fat old woman with her powered face and reddened mouth and her queer coppery hair, wearing no jewels but the three strands of great pearls laid on the shelf of her bosom, and draped in heaviest crГӘpe, mourning as one who eats caviar, oysters, sole <em>marguery</em>, mourns because Christ died upon a Friday, what had she done with Lucy? Was his slim white dryad really there, imprisoned in this tree with its roots in the earth?</p>
			<p>вҖңVictor! After all these yearsвҒ вҖ”no, dreadful man, donвҖҷt dare to say how many! My daughter Madame de GricheвҒ вҖ”Mrs.В Portal, Mrs.В Lee, General ScudworthвҒ вҖ”my grandson MarcelвҒ вҖ”Monsieur Campion is a dear and old friend of GrandвҖҷmamanвҖҷs, <em>pвҖҷtit</em>вҒ вҖ”my little granddaughter Lucie. Tea! Tea! Ring for tea, Colette, <em>chГ©rie</em>. Tell them heaps of <em>confitures</em>! DonвҖҷt sit on Galette or ChrysanthГЁme, anyoneвҒ вҖ”вҖқ</p>
			<p>Madame de Griche, ugly and chic, her black hair cut like a boyвҖҷs, the pearls in her ears and the cigarette drooping from her lacquer-red mouth startlingly white against her yellow skin, was pouring the tea. There were dishes heaped with the ruby and topaz of jam and marmalade, mauve tin boxes from SherryвҖҷs stood open, disclosing chocolates and small rich cakes, the room was full of flowers wilting a little in the steam heatвҒ вҖ”white lilac really swooning, blue and yellow iris, powdery-sweet mimosa. The two silky, fat toy dogs, like lumps of half-melted toffee, were yapping and being fed chocolates by Lucy, whose stern little granddaughter was chiding her. вҖң<em>Non, non, GrandвҖҷmaman, cвҖҷest mГ©chant! Va-tu, ChrysanthГЁme! ChrysanthГЁme! Galette! Taissez-vous, mauvaises chiens!</em>вҖқ Boxes were arriving, the telephone ringing, MarcelвҖҷs high voice was crying into it, вҖңAlloh, Alloh!вҖқ Old friends rushed in and were embraced.</p>
			<p>вҖң<em>Le tГ©lГ©phone, Maman!</em>вҖқ</p>
			<p>Lucy took the teapot. вҖңHow do you take your tea, Victor?вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңTwo lumps and cream, please.вҖқ</p>
			<p>So she gave him lemon, saying, вҖңNow we must have a long, long talk about the dear old days!вҖқ But things kept happening.</p>
			<p>And then his body followed his spirit that had long ago hurried away towards home. The March air flowed cool and delicious over his hot face, he let his mouth relax from its stretch of polite and nervous smile. He could catch the six oвҖҷclock train, he would be home before ten!</p>
			<p>He had let his bunch of lilies-of-the-valley stay crushed in his pocket. They had been too gentle. And he thought sadly, complacently:</p>
			<p>вҖңPoor Lucy, how fat she has grownвҒ вҖ”and how old!вҖқ</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
