<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<h1 id='t10019'>XXIX</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Fannie Page tilted the side of her face to her
husband’s casual kiss, as she went on reading her
letters. “Frances says little Francie’s been chosen to
be Wild Rose in the school play,” she told him across
his fence of newspaper. “She’s making her a costume
of pink and green crêpe paper—seems to me <span class='it'>studying’s</span>
the last thing they think of in school nowadays.
Elizabeth says as far as she can see the twins never
do anything but model in clay and sing folk-songs.
Let’s see. Both Freddie’s front teeth are out. Poor
little fellow, how funny he must look! What’s the
matter with your canteloupe, dear? Isn’t it good?
I <span class='it'>told</span> that man——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where’s Pren?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He had breakfast earlier. He’s going to Springfield
with the Bangs boys, I only hope they don’t
break down and have to be towed home again. I told
him I’d tell you he’d taken the automobile, I knew
you wouldn’t mind.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I do mind.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, you don’t.” She heaved her violet billows
out of her chair, and came around to kiss the bald
place on the top of his head. She must remember to
get him some more hair tonic—not that it seemed to
do much good.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have another cup of coffee—of <span class='it'>course</span>, it won’t
hurt you. Mary, ask Ella for some hot waffles.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here’s about my speech at the banquet, Fannie.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mmm——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, if you aren’t interested——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What? Oh, darling, I <span class='it'>am</span>, <span class='it'>intensely</span> interested!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What in?” he asked suspiciously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, to tell you the truth, Prentice, I wasn’t
listening, I was reading a letter from Margery, and
<span class='it'>guess</span> who she’s met! Victor Campion! Did you
ever? Listen——</p>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘Betty and I went to a dinner before a dance at the
Century Club, I wore my candleshade——’ ”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Her what?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, her pink dress with the crystal fringe—let’s
see—‘and split the skirt again——’</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Tc!</span> Why <span class='it'>will</span> they try to dance in hobble skirts?
Wait, where is it that she tells about Victor?</p>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘I had something aged but sprightly on one side
of me, named Mr. Victor Campion. When I say
sprightly, I mean he’s the kind that’s still begging for
a rosebud; and one of the other men told me at the
dance that after dinner he told them the world’s
mildest limerick about a split skirt that he evidently
considered absolutely devilish. He was pretty old for
the party, but Betty says everybody uses him for filling
in, though the débutantes groan when they get
next him; and, of course, he’s <span class='it'>not</span> exactly thrilling.
She says he’s a regular town institution, you haven’t
properly come out until Mr. Campion comes to your
tea and says ‘What charming blossoms and what still
more charming buds!’ You’ll see he really <span class='it'>is</span> old
when I tell you he says he knew you when you were a
girl—<span class='it'>Well!</span>”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A polite daughter you have!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now, Prentice, of course, we seem a thousand to
those young things—just a lit-tle <span class='it'>bit</span> of egg on your
chin, darling!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘He seemed inclined to give me a rush at the
dance—and, oh, Mother, his idea of the Boston! Hop
is no word for it! He’s <span class='it'>much</span> worse than Daddy.
But a perfect <span class='it'>peach</span> from Princeton who was on my
other side came to my rescue——’</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Prentice, why do you suppose Victor Campion
never married?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I don’t know. He was too much of a spoiled
baby, I guess, first his mother and then his sisters, always
protecting him and admiring him until he was
too tender to do anything but run home and hide,
when anything real started to happen to him. And
then he was supposed to be pretty much cut up over
Lucy Hawthorn, wasn’t he?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, I guess he was; but mercy, that was ages ago,
and she certainly wasn’t the only pebble on the beach.
And anyway, no man’s going to be faithful to one
woman all his life if she’s out of reach—you needn’t
tell me! Women do, but not men—it isn’t their
nature. No, I guess he just wasn’t the marrying kind,
or else as you say they made him too comfortable at
home.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Prentice made a vague conversational sound, his
eyes straying to his newspaper, but Fannie went on,
interested:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You know it isn’t only Victor himself, but I believe
the girls wouldn’t have been old maids if it
hadn’t been for him. Maggie never said so, but everyone
knew she broke her engagement so she could stay
and take care of him; and they never could go anywhere
or have pretty clothes or anything, because
everything had to be spent on Victor. You can’t
exactly blame him for being selfish, they never gave
him a chance to be anything else. Did they? Did
they, Prentice?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mm,” said Prentice, reading.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mother always said Mrs. Campion would have
married again if it hadn’t been for Victor. I remember
there was someone. Mrs. Campion came to see
Mother one day, and cried and said Victor was so sensitive
he needed especially tender treatment, and
Father said afterwards he needed a hairbrush applied
to the seat of his trousers.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s about right.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, it seems queer to think of such a mild little
man as Victor Campion having any influence on anybody.
But I can’t help feeling sorry for him. An old
bachelor seems so sad, somehow. Sort of forlorn.
And can you imagine—even imagine life without any
children, Prentice?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can easily, and it sounds like a paradise of
peace.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, go on! Skidoo!” she cried, slapping him affectionately.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Fannie! What language!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, it’s what Pren and Bobby say all the time—‘twenty-three,
skidoo.’ ” She returned his goodbye
kiss, as she put a pansy in his buttonhole, and then
went back for just one more waffle with butter and
maple syrup. She knew she oughtn’t to eat waffles,
she was so fat. Elizabeth was always telling her so.
“You mustn’t let yourself go to seed, Mother.” Oh,
well! She poured out just a little more coffee, with
three lumps and cream.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Victor Campion! Poor old thing! She was sorry
for the girls, too. Isabel Leaf said they had had a
dreadful time, with May’s suicide, and being poor,
and having to sell The Maples. The Maples
without the Campions, the Campions without The
Maples—impossible to imagine! “We used to have
such fun there!” she thought. “Poor old Maggie! It
would be nice to ask her to Hartford for a visit—give
her a good rest, and feed her up.” She would do it
sometime—or at least she would if ever a time came
when she wasn’t too occupied with her family. The
family came first, of course.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Poor Maggie! Poor Lily! Poor Victor! Never
to marry, never to have children and grandchildren—how
awful! No one to love. Perhaps, she had gone
to seed, as Elizabeth said, but what did it matter,
when such fresh young flowers were springing up so
thickly around her?</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her thoughts floated from the Campions to little
Francie in her wild rose costume—to the dress she was
embroidering for Elizabeth’s baby—the day’s menus—Pren
would be bringing the Bangs boys home for
dinner—Bobby back from Andover tomorrow—the
sunshine wrapping her feet in soft warm gold—the
pot of pansies on the breakfast table. One was dead,
and in her mind she stretched out her hand and
pinched it off, but her body was too comfortable to
move. She sank into an agreeable torpor.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>Victor lay in his bath, dreamily blowing bubbles.
Nice to sleep late and dawdle over dressing on Sunday
morning. “ ‘Oh, waltz me around again, Willie.’ ”
he sang, making a beautiful lather.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Around, around, around!</p>
<p class='line0'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The music so dreamy, like peaches and creamy——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>He was going to do exercises every morning—that
was the way to keep fit. Sunday was the day to be
lazy, but he’d start tomorrow. Twenty minutes brisk
exercises every morning—what if it did mean getting
up a little earlier? The very thought made him feel
as glowing and strong-willed as if he had gone
through them already.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Oh, Willie Fitzgibbons he used to sell ribbons,</p>
<p class='line0'>And stand up all day on his feet——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Where was his blue tie with the cream-colored
dots?</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘He got very spoony on Madeleine Mooney——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Last night he had come home old and tired. The
dinner had been hard work. He had told all his
funniest stories, and waited with an ear anxiously
cocked for the laughter that did not come. Polite,
vague smiles—“Oh, that’s <span class='it'>perfect</span>!” And afterwards,
at the dance! No one really danced any more.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But at home again, where all things—the burning
lamp, the doughnuts and milk waiting under a napkin
on the hall table, his turned-back bed, light, and food,
and rest—were symbols of love for him, he revived,
he grew happy again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie was watering her plants in the bay window.
A rubber bulb sprinkler filled itself—blub-blub-blub—in
a pail of warm water standing on the newspapers
spread on the floor under the dripping fringe of ivy,
and the room was full of sunshine and the fragrance
of sprinkled geraniums.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You sound as lively as a cricket. Have a good
time last night? Wait, I’ll bring in your breakfast——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She loved Sunday mornings, when she could let him
sleep late, when he had time to talk with her as he
lingered over his breakfast. She made him a brown
and gold puff of omelet while he was eating his
orange, and brought it in to him still sputtering and
heaving.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Guess who I sat next at dinner—Fannie Leaf’s
daughter, the youngest one. She’s visiting Robert and
Isabel.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Fannie Leaf’s daughter! Well, I never! What’s
she like?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A pretty little thing—looks the way Fannie used
to, pink cheeks and dimples and curly light hair.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, wasn’t that nice for her, to sit next you and
have you know her mother and father and everything—here,
let me give you some more coffee. Did she give
you any news of Fannie and Prentice?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Some new grandchildren since last we heard. A
grandmother! Poor old Fannie, I bet she doesn’t
like that. Makes her sound pretty old, don’t it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It don’t seem possible. I always think of her the
way she was on her wedding day, so slender and
laughing—the prettiest bride I ever saw, I think, and
the youngest looking. But Isabel Leaf says she’s aged
awfully, and gotten so fat and settled—what do you
want? Matches? Wait a minute, I’ll get them for
you. Well, I can’t get over how nice it was for her
having you for a partner!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She’s not much of a dancer, though. We didn’t
get on very well together.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, if she couldn’t dance with you, she couldn’t
dance with anyone.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He went happily into the living-room, to the sunshine
and the Sunday papers. Last night he had been
hurt by Margery Page’s straying attention, vague
answers, and frequent stiffenings of the jaw that
meant yawns suppressed. She had had plenty to say
to the Princeton sophomore on her other side, plenty
of things to giggle about. And although she and
Victor certainly had not gotten on very well when
they were dancing together, he had seen her swooping
and dipping almost professionally with other partners.
But no matter what suspicion stole on him in the outside
world that he was not as young as he used to be,
that he was not as fascinating as he wanted to be, at
home where they loved and admired him so he found
the Fountain of Youth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He hunted out the funny papers, and lit a fresh
cigarette. She had been as pretty as a picture, with
all those yellow curls. Perhaps, she had just been
shy with an older man, “A man of the world,” he
thought rather complacently. He hadn’t anything
especial to do today—he might go in to Wilmington
after lunch and call on her. It would be polite, and
she would be pleased.</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
