<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
			<h1 id='t7286'>XXII</h1>

<p class='pindent'>Ridiculous to feel positively light-headed with
high spirits when one is in the middle thirties—Maggie
couldn’t understand it. Yet that was how she
did feel. She wanted to go bounding up into the sky,
like a balloon, to sing, shout at the top of her lungs,
laugh, not just a little, but loud, with her head back
and her mouth wide open. What had gotten into her?
She hadn’t felt like this for heaven knew how many
years. It was the spring, perhaps. Just the first beginning
of spring, the soft boundless sky, the flowing
wakening air, the sudden, sweet warmth of the sun,
the smell of everything, that made her want to laugh
and cry at the same time, not gently or sentimentally,
but as hard as she could. Spring is not gentle or
sentimental, for all its pretty pink and white cloak of
blossoming boughs. The wet, new green in the woods,
intense in the sunlight, is as fierce as a sword-thrust,
flowers in the grass are as awful as stars in the sky.
Spring is terrible and divine, tearing the earth wide
open, tearing the children of earth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She really wanted to go to the wedding in Wilmington—not
because Victor was going to be an usher,
but just because she was bursting for some fun. She
hadn’t anything fit to wear, but never mind—her
black silk covered her, and nobody would be looking
at her, anyway.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But after she put it on, it looked so poky and old-lady
that she cut some geraniums as bright as wet,
scarlet paint, and a velvet leaf, to put in her belt. She
didn’t care if it was silly, and her cape would cover
them up on the train. And whisking around, getting
tea and bread and butter and cottage-cheese, for they
didn’t need much supper with a wedding reception to
look forward to, she sang a song she hadn’t thought of
for ever so long.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘I feel, I feel, I feel,</p>
<p class='line0'>I feel like a morning star!</p>
<p class='line0'>I feel, I feel, I feel,</p>
<p class='line0'>I feel like a morning star!</p>
<p class='line0'>Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!</p>
<p class='line0'>Shoo fly! Don’t bother me——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Squeak, squeak, squeak, went the pump-handle, out
gushed the water. Clash! went the kettle cover.
Maggie took a few dance steps on the kitchen floor.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!’</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“Ma-ay! Plenty of extra hot water, if you want
any! Get-<span class='it'>tout</span>, kitty, or I’ll step on you!</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!</p>
<p class='line0'>For I belong to Company G!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie! I’ve ripped under my arm!” That was
Lily’s wail.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Wait a minute—I’ll come and sew you up.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!</p>
<p class='line0'>Shoo fly——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>May was a picture in dark red, so much handwork
that it made your eyes ache to think of it, and with
Mamma’s garnet necklace. In the soft afternoon light
you couldn’t see the fine lines that had come around
her mouth and eyes. Lily was in snuff color, with dark
blue velvet bows. It was her best dress. She hadn’t
worn it for months, and it had become ever so much
too tight. She couldn’t take a long breath, she couldn’t
lift her arms. Her nose was pink, and tears stood in
her eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodness, Lily! This silk gives with every stitch
I take. Stop breathing—turn around to the light—turn
round. Oh, Lily! I do believe you’ve got a big
spot on the front——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I just can’t go,” Lily quavered.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let me think——” And she tried to frown and
think about poor fat Lily, but she began to smile,
to hum:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘I feel, I feel, I feel——’</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='noindent'>Look—you can take Mamma’s lace shawl, it’ll hide
everything if you’re just a little bit careful.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They had put on their best bustles that had been
Christmas presents from Aunt Priscilla. For every day
May wore a home-made horsehair pad, and Maggie
and Lily rolls of soft paper. These best ones were so
large and elaborate that they made the sisters feel
fashionable but apprehensive. Lily’s was forever
getting to one side, and when it came to sitting down
gracefully, they all had their bad moments.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They walked down the lane to the station, holding
their skirts well up out of the spring mud. Their
party slippers, and Cousin Jennie Blodgett’s Christmas
present gloves still folded in yellow tissue paper, were
in bags that swung from their arms, and white zephyr
nubias covered their careful coiffures.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mercy, this mud is awful—go slowly, girls, we
have heaps of time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lily, did you—look out, don’t catch your cloud
on those twigs. Wait a minute—hold still, I’ll get it
off—there! Did you remember to put kitty out?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just imagine how the bride must be feeling by now—look,
that little patch of grass is ever so green!”</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!</p>
<p class='line0'>Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“What’s got into you, Maggie? Hold your skirt
up higher in the back.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, girls, <span class='it'>smell that spring smell</span>!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And, as they stepped out of the Wilmington station,
the big warm drops began to fall, making dark stars on
the pavement. Great, warm, wet splashes of spring
rain, falling on her face. Maggie was happy enough
to cry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll take a cab.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have you enough with you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, it’s all right. We can’t walk in the rain in
our silks, and with our hair and everything.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They changed into their slippers and pulled on their
white gloves, rumbling up Market Street.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Look—it’s raining hard now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“May, how much do you think I ought to fee the
driver?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Girls! <span class='it'>Look</span> at the line of carriages, if you please!
Did you ever?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ten cents is <span class='it'>plenty</span>.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know, but it’s so wet, and he looked sort of
shabby.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“See, they have a red carpet out—I’m glad we
changed into our slippers, they won’t get a bit wet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie shoved some money into the driver’s hand
and hurried after the others. May need never know
how much it was, and anyway it was her own egg-money.
He looked so forlorn, and his nose was so
red, with a little drop trembling from it. She wanted
everyone to be happy tonight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then the church, and Victor. Lily pretended
it was his wedding, and the idea melted her into tears.
Where was her handkerchief? She must have brought
one——</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maggie——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yessum.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t find my handkerchief——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>People smiled at each other with knowing little
nods. They understood all about it, whatever it was.
The organ warbled high and tremulous. Silk rustled
past as the ushers towed lady after lady up the aisle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What, May?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The lilies are too sweet—they make me feel faint.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Victor looks nice, doesn’t he? His coat’s just a
teeny bit too big, but don’t ever tell him so.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There go the Hollys—I should think she’d be just
about dead with that sealskin sacque on a night like
this, but let’s be stylish or die. I guess they must have
driven in, they weren’t on the train.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’re late—the bride is, I mean. I wonder if
anything could have happened.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The organ rumbled so that Maggie couldn’t hear the
rain, but she could feel it falling on her heart, life-giving
and warm.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here they come!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The organ agreed. Ta <span class='it'>dar</span>dy <span class='it'>da</span>! Ta <span class='it'>dar</span>dy <span class='it'>da</span>!
The river of white silk and lace, pink sashes, and black
coats, the river of life, flowed up the aisle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hollys gave them a lift to the reception; and,
as Mrs. Holly wanted to stop at her sister’s on the
way, just for half a second, they were half an hour
late. And then in the room where they took off their
wraps Maggie saw a line of white petticoat showing
under Lily’s skirt, and had to stop for that.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Walk off, Lily—nobody’s going to notice—walk
off a little way—here, back up.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Ouch</span>, Maggie!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, did I run it into you? You’re all right now.
Come on, girls!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>For two pins she’d slide down the banisters!
Clatter, scream, a little thread of “Il Bacio” as they
pushed slowly past the orchestra under the stairs.
May talked to her sisters vivaciously, as if she had just
been introduced to them, but her eyes wandered
anxiously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What a lovely wedding!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Doesn’t the bride look sweet?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>What a lovely wedding! Doesn’t the bride look
sweet? What a lovely wedding! Doesn’t the bride
look sweet?</p>

<p class='pindent'>May had a man now, and was shrieking at him
through the racket. Maggie and Lily were carried on
by the tide.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“See, Lily, how nice our present looks.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They hadn’t been able to afford anything new.
There were the pair of high-shouldered dark blue vases
with the gold polka-dots and white stomachers painted
with seaweed and shells, that had stood on the dining-room
mantelpiece practically forever. How surprised
they must be at their new surroundings, a blue velvet
case of pearl-handled fish knives on one side, pink cake-plates
with gold stippling on the other, and an onyx
clock with a bronze Minerva behind them. It seemed
almost disloyal to go away and leave them there—such
old friends.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Lily found a nice little corner where she was hidden
away and didn’t have to bother about her bustle or her
petticoat or keeping her shawl just so. When the
colored waiter thrust the plate into her hands, she tried
to explain that she had already had one supper, but he
hurried away without paying any attention. So she
ate the broiled oysters and chicken salad lingeringly,
shedding a sentimental tear now and then when the
violin, close by her ear, grew extra piercing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie was just going to dive in after her when
Mrs. Craig backed her against a palm.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Miss Campion! Well! I haven’t seen you,
since dear knows when—how are you? Wasn’t it a
pretty wedding? And dear little Annie made such a
sweet bride, didn’t she? Have you had your supper?
I thought the mayonnaise was sort of <span class='it'>poor</span>, didn’t you?
But then I’m fussy about mayonnaise, I guess, at least
so they always tell me—and then there’s always so
much celery in caterer’s chicken salad—more of everything
than chicken. I said to Mr. Craig, I guess the
chicken this salad was made of had a mother that
mooed and had horns and four legs—look! That
dress with the orange trimmings—someone ought to
tell her how she looks, really it would be kinder. Fat
people ought to be careful what they wear.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So they ought, thought Maggie, looking at Mrs.
Craig’s round little body almost bursting out of its rose-colored
silk. Just like a watermelon, and those jet
buttons were the watermelon seeds.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘I feel, I feel, I feel,</p>
<p class='line0'>I feel like a morning star——’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>Oh, she must get that out of her head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Frank! Coo-hoo! Frank! You’ve met my husband,
haven’t you, Miss Campion? Frank, I could eat
another plate of ice-cream if I was sufficiently urged,
couldn’t you, Miss Campion? <span class='it'>Couldn’t</span> you? <span class='it'>Frank!</span>
Miss Campion says she couldn’t. Just one, dear. Just
one. <span class='it'>Frank!</span> Unless you want one yourself! Have
you seen the presents? Well, to tell you the <span class='it'>honest</span>
truth I was surprised they weren’t handsomer—oh,
stop that waiter—waiter! Try this punch, I think
there’s champagne in it——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie moved her head away from the palm sticking
into the back of her neck. Mercy, how the woman
buzzed!</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>“ ‘Shoo fly! Don’t bother me!’ ”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>“I was looking at the presents with Edward Post
and his wife, and he was saying that the worst of
getting married——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The glass of punch leapt on Maggie’s plate.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Edward——?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Edward Post. Didn’t you know him when he
lived with the Allens, years ago, before he went to
South America? You must have, they lived so near
you. Why, yes, seems to me I’ve heard he was quite
a beau of yours, haven’t I? Didn’t you see him and
his wife this evening?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie set down her chattering glass and plate on
the corner of the mantelpiece. She was shivering all
over. Mrs. Craig’s face floated towards her, burst
into splinters of brightness and blackness. She heard
her own voice say, high and unfamiliar, an affected
society voice:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, I didn’t see him. In fact, I hadn’t heard he
was married.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And she laughed nervously, politely, leaning against
the wall to keep from falling.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes, indeed, very much so, he has been for two
years. In fact he married a distant connection of Mr.
Craig’s—<span class='it'>too</span> bad you didn’t meet her, but they left
very early. Of course, they don’t live here, but he
comes on sometimes on business, I understand—not
that Mr. Craig and myself see much of them; just between
you and me I think success has turned his head a
little. She had a <span class='it'>very</span> pretty dress on, a pink corded
silk, not exactly <span class='it'>pink</span>, more <span class='it'>peach</span>—look! Will you
<span class='it'>look</span> at Mr. Craig! He’s lost me completely—look at
that <span class='it'>hopeless</span> expression. See, he doesn’t see us at all!
Frank! Oh, Frank, honey—I’ll just have to chase
after him——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Maggie went upstairs to the bedroom, empty except
for heaps of cloaks, drifts of nubias, foot-hills of
storm-boots, and huddled in a dark corner. Her
geraniums fell from her belt and lay on the floor beside
her, as red as a pool of blood. She felt as if she
were bleeding to death. She had never really said
goodbye in her heart to Edward. But now she knew
that the footsteps she had listened to for so long would
never reach her.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘Goodnight, ladies! I’m going to leave you
now!’ ”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t feel a bit sleepy. Didn’t Victor look wonderful?
I don’t think it’s prejudice, I think he really
<span class='it'>was</span> far and away the best looking usher, don’t you?
Just imagine the way we’ll be feeling when he’s the
bridegroom!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is he coming home or spending the night in town?
Well, I’ll leave out some sponge-cake and milk anyway.
Goodnight.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodnight.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lily, did you see to kitty?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Someone stood all over my slippers—look, one
bow’s lost!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Goodnight, I guess I am sleepy after all. Oh, I
brought home some wedding-cake to dream on—want
some, May? Maggie! Want some wedding-cake to
dream on?”</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
